Update JS code guidelines (#19929)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mdn/writing_guidelines/writing_style_guide/code_style_guide/javascript/index.md

  - meta
  - writing-guide
---

{{MDNSidebar}}

The following guidelines cover writing JavaScript example code for MDN Web Docs. This article is a list of rules for writing concise examples that will be understandable by as many people as possible.

## General guidelines for JavaScript code examples

This section explains the general guidelines to keep in mind while writing JavaScript code examples. The later sections will cover more specific details.

### Choosing a format

Opinions on correct indentation, whitespace, and line lengths have always been controversial. Discussions on these topics are a distraction from creating and maintaining content.

> On MDN Web Docs, we use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) as a code formatter to keep the code style consistent (and to avoid off-topic discussions). You can consult our [configuration file](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/.prettierrc.json) to learn about the current rules, and read the [Prettier documentation](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On MDN Web Docs, we use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) as a code formatter to keep the code style consistent (and to avoid off-topic discussions). You can consult our [configuration file](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/.prettierrc.json) to learn about the current rules, and read the [Prettier documentation](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html).
```

## Comments

Comments are critical to writing good code examples. They clarify the intent of the code and help developers understand it. Pay special attention to them.

Add a comment if the purpose or logic of the code isn't obvious. Comments are not necessary, for example, when functions have explicit names that describe what they're doing. This comment doesn't add much value for the reader and can be left out:

```js example-bad
closeConnection(); // Closing the connection
```

A comment should describe the intention of the author rather than merely describe the code For example, this is not a good use of a comment:

```js example-bad
let total = 0;

// For loop from 1 to 4
for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++ ){
  // Add value to the total
  total += arr[i];
}
```

Using a comment to describe the intention of the code makes the example clearer, as shown below:

```js example-good
let total = 0;

// Calculate the sum of the four first elements of arr
for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++ ){
  total += arr[i];
}
```

### Use JS-style comments

> JS-style comments are marked with `//`, as opposed to C-style comments enclosed between `/* … */`.

Reviewer: I don't think there's such thing as "JS-style comment". Both comments are equally popular. There's only "single-line comment" and "block comment", the latter some call "C-style" (which is very aged).

Author: Fixed.

  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.textContent = "My new paragraph";
  document.body.appendChild(para);
}
```

### Use comments to mark ellipsis

Skipping redundant code using ellipses (…) is necessary to keep examples short. Still, writers should do it thoughtfully as developers frequently copy & paste examples into their code, and all of our code samples should be valid JavaScript.

In JavaScript, you should put the ellipses (`…`) in a comment. When possible, indicate what action somebody reusing this snippet is expected to add. So don't use ellipses (…) like this:

```js example-bad
function exampleFunct() {
  …
}
```

Using a comment for the ellipses (…), as shown below, will be more explicit, preventing errors when a developer copies and pastes a sample code:

```js example-good
function exampleFunct() {
  // Add your code here
  // …
}
```

### Comment out parameters

When writing code, you usually omit parameters you don't need. But in some code examples, you want to demonstrate that you didn't use some possible parameters.

To do so, you use `/* … */` in the parameter list. This is an exception to the rule to only use JS-style comments (`//`).

> 

Reviewer: Add a mention of multiline comments? I think in the past you've refactored a few `/* */` multiline comments to use `//`. I don't have strong opinions. One place where I'll use `/*` though is to indicate console output, especially where formatting is important. We probably want to use JSDoc here and there as well (it's a pretty good practice).

Author: I added a mention and examples of comments.

I've not added the two exceptions for using `/* */` (console.log, JSDocs) because I think we can speak about these with concrete examples in follow-up PRs, if needed.

## Variables

### Variable names

Good variable names are essential to understanding code.

> - Use short identifiers, and avoid non-common abbreviations. Good variable names are usually between 3 to 10-character long, but as a hint only. For example, `accelerometer` is more descriptive than abbreviating to `acclmtr` for the sake of character length.

Reviewer: Also mention that we should avoid placeholders like `foo` and aim for examples that look relevant to real life.

- Do not use the [Hungarian notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungarian_notation) naming convention. Do not prefix the variable name with its type. For example, write `bought = car.buyer !== null` rather than `bBought = oCar.sBuyer != null`, or `name = "John Doe"` instead of `sName = "John Doe"`.
- For collections, don't put the type (list, array, queue) in the name. Use the content name in the plural form. For example, for an array of cars, use `cars` and not `carArray` or `carList`. That way, your loops will be easy-to-read. E.g., `for (const car of cars)`.

> - Use lowerCamelCasing. Do not use `_`. Use concise, human-readable, and semantic names where appropriate. For example, use `currencyName` rather than `currency_name`.

Reviewer: I think `camelCase` refers to the lowercase variant. The uppercase one is `PascalCase`?

We may also want to mention that this applies to primitive values, since objects and classes are discussed in the following section, and that in certain cases `ALL_CAPS` is acceptable?

Author: Fixed

Author: I prefer to avoid mentioning ALL_CAPS. (I don't think it is really needed)

> - Avoid using articles and possessives. For example, use `car` instead of `myCar` or `aCar`.

Reviewer: `myCar` sounds a bit dumb, but `myArray` or `myFunction` is pretty common. The purpose is to demonstrate that the name is arbitrary. I've also written `aCar` myself—the purpose is to write code as if it's prose. (I admit that's a bit arbitrary in itself)

I think putting it in the guideline is fair since we want to avoid _overuse_, but just pointing out potential exceptions.

Author: I added a comment about the existence of exceptions.

  ```

- The example below uses `let` where it should be `const`. The code will work, but we want to avoid this usage in MDN Web Docs code examples.

  ```js example-bad
  let name = "Chris";
  console.log(myName);
  ```

- The example below uses `const` for a variable that gets reassigned. The reassignment will throw an error.

  ```js example-bad
  const age = "40";
  age++;
  console.log("Happy birthday!");
  ```

- The example below uses `var`, polluting the global scope:

  ```js example-bad
  var age = "40";
  var name = "Chris";
  ```

- Declare one variable per line, like so:

  ```js example-good
  let var1;
  let var2;
  let var3 = "Apapou";
  let var4 = var3;
  ```
  
  Do not declare multiple variables in one line, separating them with commas or using chain declaration. Avoid declaring variables like this:

  ```js example-bad
  let var1, var2;
  let var3 = var4 = "Apapou";
  ```

### Type coercion

  Avoid old idioms when forcing a value to a type. In particular, avoid `+val` to force a value to a number and `"" + val` to force it to a string. Use `Number()` and `String()`, without new, instead.

  ```js example-bad
  class Person {
    #name;
    #birthYear;
    

>     function Person(name, year) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    constructor(name, year) {
```

      this.#name = "" + name;
      this.#birthYear = +year;
    }
  };
  ```

  The correct way is:

  ```js example-good
  class Person {
    #name;
    #birthYear;
    

>     function Person(name, year) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    constructor(name, year) {
```

Author: Fixed.

      this.#name = String(name);
      this.#birthYear = Number(year);
    }
  };
  ```

## Operators

This section lists our recommendations of which operators to use and when.

### Conditional operators

> When you want to store to a variable a literal value depending on a condition, use a [Conditional (or ternary) operators](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Conditional_Operator), don't use an `if...else` statement. This rule also applies when returning a value. Write:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you want to store to a variable a literal value depending on a condition, use a [conditional (ternary) operator](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Conditional_Operator) instead of an `if...else` statement. This rule also applies when returning a value. Write:
```

```js example-good
let x = condition ? 1 : 2;
```

Do not write:

```js example-bad
let x;
if (condition) {
  x = 1;
else {
  x = 2;
} 
```

The conditional operator is helpful when creating strings to log information. In such cases, using a regular `if...else` statement leads to long blocks of code for a side operation like logging, obfuscating the central point of the example.

### Strict equality operator

> Prefer the ["strict" equality](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Strict_equality) and inequality operators over the traditional equality and inequality operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefer the [strict equality](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Strict_equality) (triple equals) and inequality operators over the loose equality (double equals) and inequality operators.
```

Use the strict equality and inequality operators like this:

```js example-good
name === 'Chris';
age !== 25;
```

Don't use the loose equality and inequality operators, as shown below:

```js example-bad
name == 'Chris';
age != 25;
```

> If you need to use `==` or `!=`, consider adding a comment to explain why you need it (i.e., the type of coercion you want to perform in the code).

Reviewer: Mention that `== null` is the _only_ acceptable case. (Yes, ONLY) TypeScript will fail on all other cases (and developers care about TypeScript-friendliness a lot these days).

Author: Fixed

### Shortcuts for boolean tests

Use shortcuts for boolean tests. For example, use `x` and `!x`, not `x === true` and `x === false`.

## Loops and conditional statements

### Loops

When [loops](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Looping_code) are required, choose the appropriate one from [`for(;;)`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for), [`for...of`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for...of), [`while`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/while), etc.

> When iterating through all collection elements, avoid using the classical for (;;) loop; prefer for...of or .forEach().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When iterating through all collection elements, avoid using the classical `for (;;)` loop; prefer `for...of` or `.forEach()`.
```

Also add a note to explain that for non-arrays you need to check if it actually works? `for...of` requires the variable to be iterable and `forEach()` requires that method to be actually present.

```js example-bad
const dogs = ["Rex", "Lassie"];
for (let i = 0; i < dogs.length; i++) {
  console.log(dogs[i]);
}
```

As shown in the above example, not only do you have to add an extra index, `i`, but you also have to track the length of the array. This can be error-prone for beginners. Consider these two alternatives:

```js example-good
const dogs = ["Rex", "Lassie"];
for (const dog of dogs) {
  console.log(dog);
}
```

```js example-good
const dogs = ["Rex", "Lassie"];
dogs.forEach((dog) => {
  console.log(dog);
});
```

Make sure that you define the initializer properly by using the `const` keyword for `for...of` or `let` for the other loops. Don't omit it. These are correct examples:

```js example-good
const cats = ['Athena', 'Luna'];
for (const cat of cats) {
  console.log(cat);
}

for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
  result += arr[i];
}
```

> The example below does not follow the recommended guidelines for the initialization (it is a `var`…).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below does not follow the recommended guidelines for the initialization (it implicitly creates a global variable and will fail in strict mode).
```

```js example-bad
const cats = ['Athena', 'Luna'];
for (i of cats) {
  console.log(i);
}
```

When you need to access both the value and the index, you can use `.forEach()` instead of `for (;;)`:

```js example-bad
const gerbils = ["Zoé", "Chloé"];
for (let i = 0; i < gerbils.length; i++) {
  console.log(`Gerbil #${i}: ${gerbils[i]}`);
}
```

```js example-good
const gerbils = ["Zoé", "Chloé"];
gerbils.forEach((gerbil, i) => {
  console.log(`Gerbil #${i}: ${gerbil}`);
})
```

> **Warning:** Never use `for...in` with arrays and strings.

> > **Note:** Consider not using a `for` loop at all. If you are using an [`Array`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) (or even a [`String`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String) for some of them), consider instead using methods iterating over each element of the collection, like [`map()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map), [`every()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/every), or finding methods like[`findIndex()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/findIndex), [`findLast()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/findLast), or [`includes()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/includes), and many more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Consider not using a `for` loop at all. If you are using an [`Array`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) (or a [`String`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String) for some operations), consider using more semantic iteration methods instead, like [`map()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map), [`every()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/every), [`findIndex()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/findIndex), [`find()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/find), [`includes()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/includes), and many more.
```

### Control statements

There is one notable case to keep in mind for the `if...else` control statements. If the `if` statement ends with a `return`, do not add an `else` statement.

```js example-bad
if (test) {
  // Perform something if test is true
  // …
  return;
} else {
  // Perform something if test is false
  // …
}
```

Continue right after the `if` statement, as shown below

```js example-good
if (test) {
  // Perform something if test is true
  // …
  return;
}

// Perform something if test is false
// …
```

### Switch statements

Switch statements can be a little tricky.

First, don't put a `break` after a `return` statement in a specific case.

```js example-bad
switch (species) {

>   case `chicken`:

Reviewer: Use normal quotes (also mention in the strings section to not overuse template literals?)

Author: This is a typo. My intend was to use normal quotes.

    return farm.shed;
    break;
  case `horse`:
    return corral.entry;
    break;
  default:
    return "";
}
```

The `break` statements are unreachable, and therefore useless. Do this instead:

```js example-bad
switch (species) {
  case `chicken`:
    return farm.shed;
  case `horse`:
    return corral.entry;
  default:
    return "";
}
```

Put `default` as the last case, and don't end it with a `break`. If you need to do it differently, add a comment explaining why.

Pay attention! When you declare a local variable for a case, you need to use braces to define a scope:

```js
switch (fruits) {
  case 'Orange': {
    let slice = fruit.slice();
    eat(slice);
    break;
  }
  case 'Apple': {
    let core = fruit.extractCore();
    recycle(core);
    break;
  }
}  
```

### Error handling

If certain states of your program throw uncaught errors, they will halt execution and potentially reduce the usefulness of the example. You should, therefore, catch errors using a [`try...catch`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch) block, as shown below:

```js example-good
try {
  console.log(getResult());
} catch (e) {

>   console.error(e);

Reviewer: Explicitly mention that `console.error()` is preferred over `console.log()`. Also, only use `try...catch` if there are _recoverable_ errors—let everything else bubble through.

Author: Using `console.error()` instead of `console.log()` is mentioned under Web APIs (even if it is a Web APIs copied in the Node APIs, which is good, it is not part of JavaScript itself).

('m adding the info about recoverable errors, that's a good point)

```

## Arrays

### Array creation

For creating arrays, use literals and not constructors.

Create arrays like this:

```js example-good
const visitedCities = [];
```

Don't do this while creating arrays:

```js example-bad
const visitedCities = new Array(length);
```

### Item addition

When adding items to an array, use [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) and not direct assignment. Let's consider the following array:

```js
const pets = [];
```

Add items to the array like this:

```js example-good
pets.push("cat");
```

Don't add items to the array like this:

```js example-bad
pets[pets.length] = "cat";
```

### Queues

Queues are collection following the [FIFO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFO_(computing_and_electronics)) principle. When using a JS `Array` as a queue, use the [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) method to add an item and the [`shift()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/shift) method to remove the first item. Do not use an index.

```js example-good
pets.push("dog")
pets.push("cat");
const pet = pets.shift(); // pet === "dog"
```

### Stacks

> Stacks are collection following the [LIFO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_(abstract_data_type)) principle. When using a JS `Array` as a stack, use the [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) method to add an item and the [`pop()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/pop) method to remove the last item. Do not use an index.

Reviewer: Please don't mention using arrays as stacks and queues (especially queues)—they are really inefficient. It also seems out-of-the-place for a style guide, since that's literally how you _ought to_ be using stacks/queues.

Author: Let's shorten indeed.

---
{{MDNSidebar}}

The following guidelines cover writing JavaScript example code for MDN Web Docs. This article is a list of rules for writing concise examples that will be understandable by as many people as possible.

> ## Principles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## General guidelines for JavaScript code examples

This section explains the general guidelines to keep in mind while writing JavaScript code examples. The later sections will cover more specific details
```
- I would not change this heading. Firstly, 'Principles' is not descriptive and does not give any idea about what will be covered. Secondly, there are similar 'General guidelines...' sections in [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide/Code_style_guide/HTML), [CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide/Code_style_guide/CSS), and [Shell](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide/Code_style_guide/Shell) pages.
- Taking this opportunity to add some text between the ## and ### headings. 🙂

### Choosing a format

> Opinions on correct indentation, whitespace, or splitting long lines have always been controversial. Discussions on these topics are a distraction from creating and maintaining content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Opinions on correct indentation, whitespace, and line lengths have always been controversial. Discussions on these topics are a distraction from creating and maintaining content.
```

> We have decided to use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) as a code formatter to avoid off-topic discussions and keep code style consistent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On MDN Web Docs, we use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) as a code formatter to keep code style consistent (and to avoid off-topic discussions).
```

> To learn more about the formatting conventions that are applied, read the [Prettier documentation](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn more about the formatting conventions used on MDN Web Docs, read the [Prettier documentation](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html).
```

> ### Modern JavaScript features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using modern JavaScript features
```
- to make it similar to the previous "## Choosing a format"

> You can use the modern and well-supported JavaScript features in MDN Web Docs code examples.

Reviewer 3: This sentence doesn't seem to add anything, given the sentences that follow it.

Author: Removed

> You can use new methods once every major browser supports them. You can use new syntax once every major browser supports them and two years have elapsed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use new methods only after every major browser supports them and new syntax after every major browser supports it and two years have elapsed.
```
- Rephrasing to skip the repetition of "You can" from the previous sentence

Reviewer 3: What is the difference between "methods" and "syntax"? And why is there a difference here? And what is the set of modern browsers?

Author: I made a difference between _methods_ and _syntax_ because I had the feeling that the adoption of a new method (like a new `Array` method or `hasOwn()` is really quick once the major browsers support it. 

For new "syntaxes", like a new for loop (`for…of` for example), I have the impression that, even if supported by all the major browsers, developers need more time to understand them, get used to them, and finally adopt them broadly.

It is a feeling not backed by hard data.

> And what is the set of modern browsers?

Likely a bit western-world-centric, but Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari, both on desktop and mobile. These cover the three engines and, in the West, a good deal of the market (and others less known browsers almost all use one of these engines).

A feature supported by the three engines, and these browsers, for 2 years, will cover a good deal of the world's users I excluded IE users and ignored those that can't update, even with an evergreen browser: as we are norm-setters, I think this is enough (and transpilers exist to help with most other use cases)

Reviewer: I don't know. I find them equivalent. For example, async functions are a lifesaver to every developer. I also find new _syntax_ easier to adopt—if you use TypeScript, you are going to transpile/downlevel anyway, so it "just works" even when you are targeting Node (I write Node programs more than I write web apps). OTOH people rarely add polyfills for Node packages, so methods/APIs may not always work.

Author: I removed the distinction: the condition is the (four) major browsers support it now.

> Don't use experimental features. In all cases, readability is more important than shaving a few characters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Don't use experimental features. In all cases, readability is more important than shaving off a few characters.
```

Reviewer 3: Again I think we need to explain what "experimental" means here.

And this:

> In all cases, readability is more important than shaving a few characters.

...seems quite out of place wrt "modern features", it's surely just generic good style, and covered later on?

Reviewer: Right. For example, I won't be anticipating any serious developer today to ship an application untranspiled. In this case using brand-new syntax (even not stage 4!) sounds perfectly fine to me, as long as transpilers like tsc and Babel support it.

Author: So I'm replacing mentions of modern browsers and experimental features by saying that it must be supported by Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari.

I agree that large project use transpilers, but not everybody use them. Professional developers are likely to do it, but students or anybody writing a quick script at home are less likely to set up a toolchain.

I think we should avoid friction for learners, too. That's why I think we should restrict the feature we use in examples to features available in the latest versions of browsers.

Commit incoming.

## Generic syntax style

Prettier formats and styles all the code; the tool will fix your errors. Nevertheless, there are a few additional rules that you need to follow.

### One line per statement

- Each line of JavaScript is on a new line.

For example, a function definition will look like this:

```js example-good
function myFunc() {
  console.log("Hello!");
};
```

> Don't put everything on one line:

Reviewer 3: Prettier will take care of this, right?

https://prettier.io/playground/#N4Igxg9gdgLgprEAuEAzArlMMCW0AEAtgJ4BimYAFAJT7D6RQDOEANnAHSsQDmlAOiAAScVtwCEg6gG58AX2kgANCAgAHXNCbJQAQwBO+iAHcACgYTaUu1sd3FtKgEb7dYANZwYAZV2E4ADI4UHDIqDZMcM6uHl7eam7BPMgw+uhRIHCETnAAJrl5AbpQPOi6PHCkEPqEujC4JcgguugwEMogABYwhKwA6p048EwJYHDelkM4AG5DxE1gTI4gwZH6MKauPLVhERkAVkwAHt5J7ACK6BDwu6yRKgn6a01OujmsHWr6wTB9OLkwTrIAAcAAYHkZIn1XGoml84GtpqEVABHK7wTbqKzNJgAWhCeTyHX0cDROBJm3KOyQ4TuGUihBwKTS9LOcEu11CNL2Khgbz+AKBSAATLzXDhWEkAMIQQjUzJMACsHXQkQAKm8rLT7iBpukAJJQAqwbxgb4aACCRu8MGI7FukTkciAA

> Don't put everything on one line:

Author: Yes, I rewrote this part to focus on the braces and completely ignore the formatting, enforced by Prettier.

```js example-bad
function myFunc() { console.log("Hello!"); };
```

There is one exception to the rule. Early returns after a condition (using `return`, `break`, or `continue`) allow for writing more readable code. The braces and indentation are useless as there is only one statement.

  ```js example-bad
  function myMethod(myParam) {
    actionList = init(myParam);
    if (actionList.length === 0) {
      return 0;
    }

    // No error, we continue
    // …
  }
  ```

>   Shortening the `if` statement renders the example easier to understand:

Reviewer 3: ...but Prettier will not insert the brackets if they are omitted:

https://prettier.io/playground/#N4Igxg9gdgLgprEAuEAzArlMMCW0AEAtgJ4CycMAFhACYAUJACgIYBOzhAlPsADpT58zbHigAZHAGcY+ALz4cUHDAbEW7LgG5+gnKnx1huaBOkA6ADYIA5lTmz5ABm6sK6VgMfaoO-AHo-fAA5CHw4VlYIVgAafAB3OHxIWEV0OF8A-EAyAn4AX34QaJAIAAdjKElkUDZIuPUESpRmCzjmYkqigCN2MABrCgBlDjgJKDhkVGbJOC6e-pgBkuFFa2QYVjSiuEJOuBoaPbFmKGt0Zms4ADEowmYYXBPkEGZ0GAhCkEoYQgsAdUplHBJEswHABg1lDgAG7KYhPMCSDogRTTVgwRjsay3CZTGYgABWkgAHgMVlYAIroCDwHEWaZFJasVFPTrMXYWD4lViKGC-HA0KjIAAcjgZkWmv3YJSeXKB4Sh4yKAEcqfAMaVGs9JABaMZ7PYfVwqnCuDHnbFISZ0vHTQg4NYbG1kuCU6njS24oowNl8gWUZAAJi97BwFhWAGEIIQLSAgQBWD7oaYAFTZjSt9JAULSAEkoAdYAMwNyygBBfMDGDEKy06a5XJAA

....it's the bracket-omission, not the line breaking, that we need to call out (assuming we want this exception, which IDK).

>   Shortening the `if` statement renders the example easier to understand:

Author: Good catch! Fixed in next commit.

  ```js example-good
  function myMethod(myParam) {
    actionList = init(myParam);
    if (actionList.length === 0) return 0;

    // No error, we continue
    // …
  }
  ```

### Spacing and indentation

Mark indentation with _2 spaces_. No tabulation. The end-of-line character is `\n`, the Unix convention. To help you, we have included an [`.editorConfig`](https://editorconfig.org/) file in the repository, and many editors read its content and use it to configure their behavior.

> Anyway, both spacing and indentation are [enforced by Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html).

Reviewer 3: I thought we were omitting things that were covered by Prettier?

> Anyway, both spacing and indentation are [enforced by Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html).

Author: I missed this one…
```suggestion
```

## Comments

Comments are critical to writing good code examples. They clarify the intent of the code and help developers understand it. Pay special attention to them.

> Add a comment if the purpose or logic of the code isn't obvious. Comments are not necessary, for example, when functions have explicit names that describe what they're doing. This comment doesn't add much value for the reader and can be left out:

Author: I'm resolving this one as there is no change suggested (both lines are identical).

```js example-bad
closeConnection(); // Closing the connection
```

A comment should describe the intention of the author rather than merely describe the code:

```js example-bad
let total = 0;

// For loop from 1 to 4
for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++ ){
  // Add value to the total
  total += arr[i];
}
```

Describing the intention makes the example clearer:

```js example-good
let total = 0;

// Calculate the sum of the four first elements of arr
for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++ ){
  total += arr[i];
}
```

### Use JS-style comments

JS-style comments are marked with `//`, as opposed to C-style comments enclosed between `/* … */`.

In general, use JS-style comments to comment code. Writers must mark each line with `//`, so it's easier to notice commented-out code visually. In addition, this convention allows to comment out sections of code using `/* …*/` while debugging.

Leave a space between the slashes and the comment. Start with a capital letter, like if it was a sentence, but don't end the comment with a period.

```js example-good
// This is a well-written JavaScript-style comment
```

> Don't write:
> 
> ```js example-bad
> // poor comment
> ```

Author: Agreed.

```suggestion
```

// Calculate the sum of the four first elements of arr
for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++ ){
  total += arr[i];
}
```

Put your comments on separate lines preceding the code they are referring to, like so:
### Use JS-style comments

JS-style comments are marked with `//`, as opposed to C-style comments enclosed between `/* … */`.

In general, use JS-style comments to comment code. Writers must mark each line with `//`, so it's easier to notice commented-out code visually. In addition, this convention allows to comment out sections of code using `/* …*/` while debugging.

Leave a space between the slashes and the comment. Start with a capital letter, like if it was a sentence, but don't end the comment with a period.

```js example-good
// This is a well-written JavaScript-style comment
```

Don't write:

```js example-bad
// poor comment
```

Add an empty line if the comment doesn't start immediately after a new indentation level. It will create a code block, making it obvious what the comment refers to.

Put your comments on separate lines preceding the code they are referring to, like:

```js example-good
function myFunc() {
  // Output the string 'Hello' to the browser's JS console

>   console.log('Hello');

Reviewer 3: This is wordy compared to almost all our current practice about commenting "expected output". I'm not convinced it is helpful to comment the fact that `console.log()` writes to the browser JS console. Also it's very common for us to have the comment after the line in cases like this, or on the next line.

e.g.

```js
console.log(filterItems(fruits, 'ap')); // ['apple', 'grapes']
console.log(filterItems(fruits, 'an')); // ['banana', 'mango', 'orange']
```

is it really the proposal to change this to:

```js
// Output the string '['apple', 'grapes']' to the browser's JS console
console.log(filterItems(fruits, 'ap'));

// Output the string '[banana', 'mango', 'orange']' to the browser's JS console
console.log(filterItems(fruits, 'an'));
```

? I don't think this is an improvement.

Author: Yes, you are right. The former (all in one line) is clearly what I would do, too.

The example is not good (as it uses `console.log()`), and we have to clarify that sometimes it is ok to put on one line.

Author: I rewrote the section to avoid `console.log` in the good example and added a new section about the output of logs, letting us add the comment on the same line.

To do so, you use `/* … */` in the parameter list. It is an exception to the rule only to use JS-style comments (`//`).

## Variables

> ### Variable names

Author: I tried to follow a logical flow of what developers would need to now:

1. I started with the general syntax
2. Comments because they are important
3. Variables names and operator-related rules
4. Control statements (loops and if…else)
5. The triad, `Array`, `String`, `Object`
6. More advanced topics, like `Functions and Classes` and `asynchronous calls`.

I'm not sure an alphabetic would bring something here: the titles are a bit arbitrary, so readers won't know in advance the section name they are looking for and will need to scan the ToC anyway. _A contrario_ it will make the linear reading of the document less logical as you don't go from basic features used everytime to less common ones: rules about classes will be found before rules about strings, and rules about `Array`, `String` and `Object` would be scattered all over the document.

> ### Variable names

Reviewer 2: I think the disconnect here is because of how we think readers will consume this information. To me, these guidelines are more like a reference/dictionary where readers will come to check out specific style info. IMO, readers will not necessary read this material from top to bottom. Understanding one section is not dependent on understanding the content of prior sections. I feel the readers will glance the TOC and go to a specific section. With that perspective, placing 'Arrays' and 'Functions' for example, in an alphabetic order is okay. I don't think the H2 titles are that arbitrary.
(It would really help when we also have H3 titles in TOC!!)

However, if the belief is that most readers will read this article in its entirety in a linear fashion, then a logical flow might help. However, the order of sections in a logical flow can be subjective. Somebody else might suggest a slightly different logical flow.

Since we are not really explaining the concepts themselves, just how we present them on MDN, I think it might be better to go with an unbiased and predictable ordering - that is, alphabetically. But again, we need to know how readers really use this information "most of the time" rather than guessing.

> ### Variable names

Reviewer: I don't think I've seen a style guide organized in alphabetical order. The first time you read it, you definitely go through every single point to get a grasp. In the future, you can simply use <kbd>Ctrl</kbd><kbd>F</kbd> to navigate. (Or H3 headings in TOC)

> Having good variable names is essential to understanding code. Use short identifiers, and avoid non-common abbreviations. Ideally, a variable name should be between 3 to 10-character long. (This is a hint, it is better to have a 12-character long variable name than to abbreviate it by removing the vowels. The identifier `accelerometer` is better than `acclmtr`).

Author: I'm mixing both suggestions here:

```suggestion
Good variable names are essential to understanding code.

- Use short identifiers, and avoid non-common abbreviations. Good variable names are usually between 3 to 10-character long, but as a hint only. For example, `accelerometer` is more descriptive than abbreviating to `acclmtr` for the sake of character length.
```

- Do not use the [Hungarian notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungarian_notation) naming convention. Do not prefix the variable name with its type. For example, write `bought = car.buyer !== null` rather than `bBought = oCar.sBuyer != null`, or `name = "John Doe"` instead of `sName = "John Doe"`.

> - For collections, don't put the type (list, array, queue) in the name. Use the content name in the plural form. For example, for an array of cars, use `cars` and not `carArray` or `carList`. That way, your loops will be easy-to-read. E.g., `for (const car of cars)`.

Reviewer 3: I think while this is great guidance for real code it is tricky for code samples in documentation, which often want to show the abstract form of a feature outside a particular application.

It's extremely common practice, again, for us to do things like:

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/slice#array-like_objects
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/filter#find_all_prime_numbers_in_an_array

(these are the first two pages I chose, and both do it)

I'm not sure that changing all these is a good use of our time.

Author: I've added a sentence to allow for exceptions so that new occurrences should not get in.

To fix the existing occurrences, I'm not too worried:
- if we stop adding new ones, it would already be better
- don't underestimate the power of the community. (There are about 180 pages affected; it doesn't look like a lot compared to what we already fixed.

- If a variable will not be reassigned, prefer `const`, like so:

  ```js example-good
  const myName = "Chris";
  console.log(myName);
  ```

- If you'll change the value of a variable, use `let` as shown below:

  ```js example-good
  let myAge = "40";
  myAge++;
  console.log("Happy birthday!");
  ```

- The example below uses `let` where it should be `const`. The code will work, but we want to avoid this usage in MDN Web Docs code examples.

  ```js example-bad
  let myName = "Chris";
  console.log(myName);
  ```

- The example below uses `const` for a variable that gets reassigned. The reassignment will throw an error.

  ```js example-bad
  const myAge = "40";
  myAge++;
  console.log("Happy birthday!");
  ```

- The example below uses `var`, polluting the global scope:

  ```js example-bad
  var myAge = "40";
  var myName = "Chris";
  ```

- Declare one variable per line. Do not chain declarations or separate them with commas.

  ```js example-bad
  let var1, var2;
  let var3 = var4 = "Apapou";
  ```

  But write:

  ```js example-good
  let var1;
  let var2;
  let var3 = "Apapou";
  let var4 = var3;

>   ```

Author: 👍  Fixed.

### Type coercion

  Avoid old idioms when forcing a value to a type. In particular, avoid `+val` to force a value to a number and `"" + val` to force it to a string. Use `Number()` and `String()`, without new, instead.

  ```js example-bad
  class Person {
    #name;
    #birthYear;
    
    function Person(name, year) {
      this.#name = "" + name;
      this.#birthYear = +year;
    }
  };
  ```

  The correct way is:

  ```js example-good
  class Person {
    #name;
    #birthYear;
    
    function Person(name, year) {
      this.#name = String(name);
      this.#birthYear = Number(year);
    }
  };
  ```

## Operators

### Conditional operators

> [Conditional (or ternary) operators](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Conditional_Operator) should be used when returning a value.

Reviewer 3: I don't really understand this. There are lots of ways of returning a value, surely we shouldn't use ternary operators for all of them? I assume this wants to say that we should use ternary operators in preference to something like:

```js
let x;
if (condition) {
  x = 1;
else {
  x = 2;
} 
```

Author: Yes, this is the intention.

```suggestion
When you want to store to a variable a literal value depending on a condition, use a [Conditional (or ternary) operators](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Conditional_Operator), don't use an `if...else` statement. This rule also applies when returning a value. Write:

```js example-good
let x = condition ? 1 : 2;
```

Do not write:

```js example-bad
let x;
if (condition) {
  x = 1;
else {
  x = 2;
} 
```

> When possible, put on a single line, as shown below:

Reviewer 3: Prettier takes care of this:

https://prettier.io/playground/#N4Igxg9gdgLgprEAuEAbOMAEBnGBDGAV20wF5MAKPAczkwD5yBGADgEoAdKTTAfkwDkeACaFUMAVx5JBAWwCWUCACcBAbhAAaEBAAOMedGzJQeZcogB3AApmExlHlSW8AT2PaARsrxgA1hgAyniycAAyinDIAGZO2HBePv5Bur6K1MgwyoQJIHCynnDCwkVheFDUhDRwAGIqsgQGFcggeIQwEFogABYwsqgA6t3y8NipYHCB9iPyAG4jri1g2B4givHKMNY+1A0xcbkAVtgAHoHp6ACKhBDw+6jx2qnKGy2eeIWoXbrKijAD8mEMG6yBYAAYnhZ4gMfLoWj84BtZlFtABHG7wbZ6BytbAAWigcCKRS6yjg6PkZO2ND2SFiD1y8QUmWyjIucGutyidIO2nwngBQJBSAATHyfPJUOkAMIQWS0vLYACsXWIcAAKh8HPTHiBZjkAJJQEqwQJgX76ACCxsCMFc6Hu8QAvk6gA

Author: You're right. I'm removing this example.

```js example-good
let status = (age >= 18) ? 'adult' : 'minor';
```

If needed (if the line is too long), Prettier will add line breaks with indentation to conditional operators:

```js example-bad
let status = (age >= 18)
  ? 'adult'
  : 'minor';
```

The conditional operator is helpful when creating strings to log information. In such cases, using a regular `if...else` statement leads to long blocks of code for a side operation like logging, obfuscating the central point of the example.

### Strict equality operator

> Always use the ["strict" equality](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Strict_equality) and inequality operators over the traditional equality and inequality operators.

Reviewer 3: "Always" but then we have an exception below. Maybe "Prefer" is better?

Author: 😄 
```suggestion
Prefer the ["strict" equality](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Strict_equality) and inequality operators over the traditional equality and inequality operators.
```

Use the strict equality and inequality operators like this:

```js example-good
name === 'Chris';
age !== 25;
```

Don't use the loose equality and inequality operators, as shown below:

```js example-bad
name == 'Chris';
age != 25;
```

If you need to use `==` or `!=` consider adding a comment explaining why you need it (i.e., the type of coercion you want to perform).

### Shortcuts for boolean tests

Use shortcuts for boolean tests. For example, use `x` and `!x`, not `x === true` and `x === false`.

## Loops and conditional statements

### Loops

When [loops](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Looping_code) are required, choose the appropriate one from [`for(;;)`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for), [`for...of`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/for...of), [`while`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/while), etc.

> When possible, like iterating through all collection elements, avoid using the classical `for (;;)` loop; prefer `for...of` or `.forEach()`.

Author: ```suggestion
When iterating through all collection elements, avoid using the classical for (;;) loop; prefer for...of or .forEach().
```

```js example-good
const dogs = ["Rex", "Lassie"];
for (const dog of dogs) {
  console.log(dog);
}
```

```js example-good
const dogs = ["Rex", "Lassie"];
dogs.forEach((dog) => {
  console.log(dog);
});
```

Make sure to define the initializer properly,  with a `const` keyword for `for...of` or `let` for the other loops. Don't omit it. These are correct examples:

```js example-good
const cats = ['Athena', 'Luna'];
for (const cat of cats) {
  console.log(cat);
}

for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
  result += arr[i];
}
```

On the other side, the example below does not follow the recommended guidelines for the initialization (it is a `var`…).

```js example-bad
const cats = ['Athena', 'Luna'];
for (i of cats) {
  console.log(i);
}
```

When you need to access both the value and the index, you can use `.forEach()` instead of `for (;;)`:

```js example-bad
const gerbils = ["Zoé", "Chloé"];
for (let i = 0; i < gerbils.length; i++) {
  console.log(`Gerbil #${i}: ${gerbils[i]}`);
}
```

```js example-good
const gerbils = ["Zoé", "Chloé"];
gerbils.forEach((gerbil, i) => {
  console.log(`Gerbil #${i}: ${gerbil}`);
})
```

> 

Author: I agree.

> 

Author: Fixed.

```js example-bad
switch (species) {
  case `chicken`:
    return farm.shed;
  case `horse`:
    return corral.entry;
  default:
    return "";
}
```

Put `default` as the last case, and don't end it with a `break`. If you need to do it differently, add a comment explaining why.

Pay attention! When you declare a local variable for a case, you need to use braces to define a scope:

```js
switch (fruits) {
  case 'Orange': {
    let slice = fruit.slice();
    eat(slice);
    break;
  }
  case 'Apple': {
    let core = fruit.extractCore();
    recycle(core);
    break;
  }
}  
```

### Error handling

If certain states of your program throw uncaught errors, they will halt execution and potentially reduce the usefulness of the example. You should therefore catch errors using a [`try...catch`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch) block, as shown below:

```js example-good
try {
  console.log(getResult());
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}
```

When you don't need the parameter of the `catch` statement, omit it:

```js example-good
  try {
    console.log(getResult());
  } catch {
    console.error("An error happened!");
  }
```

> Not writing the parameter list is called _optional catch binding_ and has been available in every browser since 2019.

Reviewer 3: This doesn't seem relevant.

Author: Agreed, it felt odd when I wrote it.
```suggestion
```

## Strings

> String literals can be enclosed with single quotes, like `'A string'`, or with double quotes, like `"A string"`. Which one to use is enforced by Prettier, so don't worry about which one to use.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure what this adds, as a guideline...

> String literals can be enclosed with single quotes, like `'A string'`, or with double quotes, like `"A string"`. Which one to use is enforced by Prettier, so don't worry about which one to use.

Author: ```suggestion
String literals can be enclosed within single quotes, as in `'A string'`, or within double quotes, as in `"A string"`. Don't worry about which one to use; Prettier keeps it consistent.
```

### Template literals

For inserting values into strings, use [template literals](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals).

Here is an example of the recommended way to use template literals. Their use prevents a lot of spacing errors.

```js example-good
let myName = 'Chris';
console.log(`Hi! I'm ${myName}!`);
```

Don't concatenate strings like shown below:

```js example-bad
let myName = 'Chris';
console.log('Hi! I\'m' + myName + '!');
```

## Arrays

### Array creation

For creating arrays, use literals and not constructors.

Create arrays like this:

```js example-good
const visitedCities = [];
```

Don't do this while creating arrays:

```js example-bad
const visitedCities = new Array(length);
```

### Item addition

When adding items to an array, use [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) and not direct assignment. Let's consider the following array:

```js
const pets = [];
```

Add items to the array like this:

```js example-good
pets.push("cat");
```

Don't add items to the array like this:

```js example-bad

> pets[pets.length] = "cat";

Reviewer 3: :-o who would do a thing like this?!

Author: Believe it or not, it is listed at several places on the web, like: https://www.samanthaming.com/tidbits/87-5-ways-to-append-item-to-array/

Author: (And I'm pretty sure to have found one case, but I don't remember where)

```

### Queues

> Queues are collection following the [FIFO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFO_(computing_and_electronics)) principle. When using a JS `Array` as a queue, use the [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) method to add an item and the [`shift()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/shift) method to remove the first item. Do not use an index.

Author: This sounds strange to me as _queues is plural, and collection singular.

@dipikabh, what about:
```suggestion
Queues are collections that follow the [FIFO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFO_(computing_and_electronics)) principle. When using a JS `Array` as a queue, use the [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) method to add an item and the [`shift()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/shift) method to remove the first item. Do not use an index.
```

> Queues are collection following the [FIFO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIFO_(computing_and_electronics)) principle. When using a JS `Array` as a queue, use the [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) method to add an item and the [`shift()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/shift) method to remove the first item. Do not use an index.

Author: This section has been removed (for another reason), this is no longer relevant.

```js example-good
pets.push("dog")
pets.push("cat");
const pet = pets.shift(); // pet === "dog"
```

### Stacks

> Stacks are collection following the [LIFO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_(abstract_data_type)) principle. When using a JS `Array` as a stack, use the [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) method to add an item and the [`pop()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/pop) method to remove the last item. Do not use an index.

Author: Ditto
```suggestion
Stacks are collections that follow the [LIFO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_(abstract_data_type)) principle. When using a JS `Array` as a stack, use the [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) method to add an item and the [`pop()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/pop) method to remove the last item. Do not use an index.
```

> Stacks are collection following the [LIFO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_(abstract_data_type)) principle. When using a JS `Array` as a stack, use the [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) method to add an item and the [`pop()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/pop) method to remove the last item. Do not use an index.

Author: No longer relevant.

---
{{MDNSidebar}}

The following guidelines cover writing JavaScript example code for MDN Web Docs. This article is a list of rules for writing concise examples that will be understandable by as many people as possible.

## General guidelines for JavaScript code examples

This section explains the general guidelines to keep in mind while writing JavaScript code examples. The later sections will cover more specific details

### Choosing a format

Opinions on correct indentation, whitespace, and line lengths have always been controversial. Discussions on these topics are a distraction from creating and maintaining content.

> On MDN Web Docs, we use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) as a code formatter to keep code style consistent (and to avoid off-topic discussions).

Reviewer: Prettier has options and the default options can change. We still need to establish our opinion on a few controversial ones, like semicolons (yes), double quotes (yes), space between object literal braces (yes), arrow function parens (yes), trailing commas (all), etc.

Author: What about not listing this in this document but linking to the [config file](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/.prettierrc.json) instead? That way, we don't complexify this place.

In addition, we could explicitly mark the default values.

cc/ @Josh-Cena, @wbamberg.

```suggestion
On MDN Web Docs, we use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) as a code formatter to keep the code style consistent (and to avoid off-topic discussions). You can consult our [configuration file](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/.prettierrc.json) to learn about the current rules.
```

Reviewer 3: > What about not listing this in this document but linking to the [config file](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/.prettierrc.json) instead? That way, we don't complexify this place.

+1

Reviewer: Makes sense to me

Author: We only list non-default values in it right now, but we can add default values explicitly so that:
- we communicate we chose this value consciously
- we avoid being surprised by thousands of changes if Prettier changes its default. (We may still want to change it too, but we will do it in an ordered way)

Committing the sentence.

To learn more about the formatting conventions used on MDN Web Docs, read the [Prettier documentation](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html).

### Using modern JavaScript features

You can use new features once every major browser, Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari, supports them.

## Generic syntax style

Prettier formats and styles all the code; the tool will fix your errors. Nevertheless, there are a few additional rules that you need to follow.

> ### Use braces with control statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use braces with control flow statements
```

> - Even if, control statements like `if`, `for`, `while` don't mandate for the use of braces when the content is made of one single statement, always use braces. Write:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- While control flow statements like `if`, `for`, and `while` don't require the use of braces when the content is made of one single statement, you should always use braces. Write:
```

  ```js example-good
  for (const car of storedCars) {
    car.paint("red");
  }
  ```

  Don't write:

  ```js example-bad
  for (const car of storedCars) car.paint("red");
  ```

  This prevent forgetting to add the braces when adding more statements.

### Spacing and indentation

Mark indentation with _2 spaces_. Don't use the tab key. The end-of-line character is `\n`, the Unix convention. To help you, we have included an [`.editorconfig`](https://editorconfig.org/) file in the repository. Many editors read its content and use it to configure their behavior.

## Comments

Comments are critical to writing good code examples. They clarify the intent of the code and help developers understand it. Pay special attention to them.

> Add a comment if the purpose or logic of the code isn't obvious, to describe the intention of the code makes the example clearer, as shown below:

Reviewer: This sentence doesn't read fluently for me

Author: Fixed.

```js example-good
let total = 0;

// Calculate the sum of the four first elements of arr

> for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++ ){

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
```

  total += arr[i];
}
```

On the other hand, restating the code in prose is not a good use of comments:

```js example-bad
let total = 0;

// For loop from 1 to 4

> for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++ ){

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++) {
```

  // Add value to the total
  total += arr[i];
}
```

Comments are also not necessary when functions have explicit names that describe what they're doing. Write:

```js example-good

> closeConnection()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
closeConnection();
```

function exampleFunct() {
  // Add your code here
  // …
}
```

Don't use ellipses (…) like this:

```js example-bad
function exampleFunct() {
  …
}
```

### Comment out parameters

When writing code, you usually omit parameters you don't need. But in some code examples, you want to demonstrate that you didn't use some possible parameters.

To do so, you use `/* … */` in the parameter list. This is an exception to the rule to only use single-line comments (`//`).

```js
array.forEach((value, /* index,  array ,*/) => {
  // …
};
```

## Variables

### Variable names

Good variable names are essential to understanding code.

- Use short identifiers, and avoid non-common abbreviations. Good variable names are usually between 3 to 10-character long, but as a hint only. For example, `accelerometer` is more descriptive than abbreviating to `acclmtr` for the sake of character length.
- Do not use the [Hungarian notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungarian_notation) naming convention. Do not prefix the variable name with its type. For example, write `bought = car.buyer !== null` rather than `bBought = oCar.sBuyer != null`, or `name = "John Doe"` instead of `sName = "John Doe"`.

> - For collections, avoid adding the type (list, array, queue) in the name. Use the content name in the plural form. For example, for an array of cars, use `cars` and not `carArray` or `carList`. There may be exceptions, like whenwant to show the abstract form of a feature outside a particular application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For collections, avoid adding the type (list, array, queue) in the name. Use the content name in the plural form. For example, for an array of cars, use `cars` and not `carArray` or `carList`. There may be exceptions, like when you want to show the abstract form of a feature without the context of a particular application.
```

- For primitive values, use _camelCase_, starting with a lowercase character. Do not use `_`. Use concise, human-readable, and semantic names where appropriate. For example, use `currencyName` rather than `currency_name`.
- Avoid using articles and possessives. For example, use `car` instead of `myCar` or `aCar`. There may be exceptions, like when describing a feature in general, without a practical context.

Use variable names like shown here:

```js example-good
let playerScore = 0;

let speed = distance / time;
```

Don't name variables like this:

```js example-bad
let thisIsaveryLONGVariableThatRecordsPlayerscore345654 = 0;

> let s = d/t;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
let s = d / t;
```

```

> **Note:** The only place where it's allowed not to use human-readable, semantic names is where a very commonly recognized convention exists, such as using `i` and `j` for loop iterators.

### Variable declarations

When declaring variables and constants, use the [`let`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/let) and [`const`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/const) keywords, not [`var`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/var). The following examples show what's recommended and what's not on MDN Web Docs:

> - If a variable will not be reassigned, prefer `const`, like so:

Reviewer: We should consistently use bullets or consistently not

Author: Good point!

Now it uses a bullet list when several items are in a section. (And no bullet list if only one is)

  ```js example-good
  const name = "Chris";
  console.log(name);
  ```

- If you'll change the value of a variable, use `let` as shown below:

  ```js example-good
  let age = "40";
  age++;
  console.log("Happy birthday!");
  ```

- The example below uses `let` where it should be `const`. The code will work, but we want to avoid this usage in MDN Web Docs code examples.

  ```js example-bad
  let name = "Chris";
  console.log(myName);
  ```

- The example below uses `const` for a variable that gets reassigned. The reassignment will throw an error.

  ```js example-bad
  const age = "40";
  age++;
  console.log("Happy birthday!");
  ```

- The example below uses `var`, polluting the global scope:

  ```js example-bad
  var age = "40";
  var name = "Chris";
  ```

- Declare one variable per line, like so:

  ```js example-good
  let var1;
  let var2;
  let var3 = "Apapou";
  let var4 = var3;
  ```
  
  Do not declare multiple variables in one line, separating them with commas or using chain declaration. Avoid declaring variables like this:

  ```js example-bad
  let var1, var2;
  let var3 = var4 = "Apapou";
  ```

### Type coercion

>   Avoid old idioms when forcing a value to a type. In particular, avoid `+val` to force a value to a number and `"" + val` to force it to a string. Use `Number()` and `String()`, without new, instead. Write:

Reviewer: Indentation looks unnecessary

Author: Removed.

}
```

When you need to access both the value and the index, you can use `.forEach()` instead of `for (;;)`. Write:

```js example-good
const gerbils = ["Zoé", "Chloé"];
gerbils.forEach((gerbil, i) => {
  console.log(`Gerbil #${i}: ${gerbil}`);
})
```

Do not write:

```js example-bad
const gerbils = ["Zoé", "Chloé"];
for (let i = 0; i < gerbils.length; i++) {
  console.log(`Gerbil #${i}: ${gerbils[i]}`);
}
```

> **Warning:** Never use `for...in` with arrays and strings.

> **Note:** Consider not using a `for` loop at all. If you are using an [`Array`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) (or a [`String`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String) for some operations), consider using more semantic iteration methods instead, like [`map()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map), [`every()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/every), [`findIndex()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/findIndex), [`find()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/find), [`includes()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/includes), and many more.

> ### Control statements

Reviewer: Maybe move the "curly" point above to here?

Author: Moved.

```js example-bad
switch (species) {
  case `chicken`:
    return farm.shed;
    break;
  case `horse`:
    return corral.entry;
    break;
  default:
    return "";
}
```

Put `default` as the last case, and don't end it with a `break`. If you need to do it differently, add a comment explaining why.

Remember that, when you declare a local variable for a case, you need to use braces to define a scope:

```js
switch (fruits) {
  case 'Orange': {
    const slice = fruit.slice();
    eat(slice);
    break;
  }
  case 'Apple': {
    const core = fruit.extractCore();
    recycle(core);
    break;
  }
}  
```

### Error handling

If certain states of your program throw uncaught errors, they will halt execution and potentially reduce the usefulness of the example. You should, therefore, catch errors using a [`try...catch`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch) block, as shown below:

```js example-good
try {
  console.log(getResult());
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}
```

When you don't need the parameter of the `catch` statement, omit it:

```js example-good
  try {
    console.log(getResult());
  } catch {
    console.error("An error happened!");
  }
```

> Keep in mind, that only _recoverable_ errors should be caught and handled. All non-recoverable errors should be let through and bubble up the call stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that only _recoverable_ errors should be caught and handled. All non-recoverable errors should be let through and bubble up the call stack.
```

## Strings

String literals can be enclosed within single quotes, as in `'A string'`, or within double quotes, as in `"A string"`. Don't worry about which one to use; Prettier keeps it consistent.

### Template literals

For inserting values into strings, use [template literals](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals).

Here is an example of the recommended way to use template literals. Their use prevents a lot of spacing errors.

```js example-good
let name = 'Chris';
console.log(`Hi! I'm ${name}!`);
```

Don't concatenate strings like this:

```js example-bad
let name = 'Chris';
console.log("Hi! I'm" + name + "!");
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a sentence like this?

> Don't overuse template literals: if there are no substitutions, use a normal string literal instead.

Author: Added

### Using modern JavaScript features

You can use new features once every major browser, Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari, supports them.

## Generic syntax style

Prettier formats and styles all the code; the tool will fix your errors. Nevertheless, there are a few additional rules that you need to follow.

### Use braces with control statement.

- Even if, control statements like `if`, `for`, `while` don't mandate for the use of braces when the content is made of one single statement, always use braces. Write:

  ```js example-good
  for (const car of storedCars) {
    car.paint("red");
  }
  ```

  Don't write:

  ```js example-bad
  for (const car of storedCars) car.paint("red");
  ```

  This prevent forgetting to add the braces when adding more statements.

- There is one exception to the rule. Early returns after a condition (using `return`, `break`, or `continue`) allow for writing more readable code. The braces and indentation are useless as there is only one statement.

  Shortening the `if` statement renders the example easier to understand:

  ```js example-good
  function exampleMethod(param) {
    actionList = init(param);

>     if (actionList.length === 0) return 0;

Reviewer: I still don't think this should be an exception. Let's say we want to turn the ESLint `curly` rule on. There isn't an option to enforce this kind of style.

```

If a comment doesn't start immediately after a new indentation level, add an empty line and then add the comment. It will create a code block, making it obvious what the comment refers to. Also, put your comments on separate lines preceding the code they are referring to. This is shown in the following example:

```js example-good
function checkout(goodsPrice, shipmentPrice, taxes) {
  // Calculate the total price
  const total = goodsPrice + shipmentPrice + taxes;

  // Create and append a new paragraph to the document
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.textContent = `Total price is ${total}`;
  document.body.appendChild(para);
}
```

### Output of logs

In examples, but rarely in production code, we often use `console.log()`, `console.error()` or similar function to output messages. In such cases, you can put a comment after the function with the log that will produced. Write:

```js example-good
function exampleFunc(fruitBasket) {
  console.log(fruitBasket); // ['banana', 'mango', 'orange']
}
```

Don't write:

```js example-bad
function exampleFunc(fruitBasket) {
  // Logs: ['banana', 'mango', 'orange']
  console.log(fruitBasket);
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Add an example of when the output gets long? My own convention is to put the message after the `console.log` line.

Author: I'm adding a longer example. I'm not convinced we should also list the block comments usage here; it sounds like a very edgy case.

Reviewer: Yeah, I'm fine with not making an explicit exception.

### Multi-line comments

> Short comments are usually better, so try to keep them in one line of 120 characters. If this is not possible, use `//` at the beginning of each line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Short comments are usually better, so try to keep them in one line of 70 characters. If this is not possible, use `//` at the beginning of each line:
```

On an average laptop screen (1440px), each code block is about 70 cols wide on MDN.

### Template literals

For inserting values into strings, use [template literals](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals).

Here is an example of the recommended way to use template literals. Their use prevents a lot of spacing errors.

```js example-good
let name = 'Chris';
console.log(`Hi! I'm ${name}!`);
```

Don't concatenate strings like this:

```js example-bad
let name = 'Chris';
console.log("Hi! I'm" + name + "!");
```

## Arrays

### Array creation

For creating arrays, use literals and not constructors.

Create arrays like this:

```js example-good
const visitedCities = [];
```

Don't do this while creating arrays:

```js example-bad
const visitedCities = new Array(length);
```

### Item addition

When adding items to an array, use [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) and not direct assignment. Let's consider the following array:

```js
const pets = [];
```

Add items to the array like this:

```js example-good
pets.push("cat");
```

Don't add items to the array like this:

```js example-bad
pets[pets.length] = "cat";
```

## Objects

### Object names

> When defining an object class, use _CamelCase_ (starting with a capital letter, also known as PascalCase) for the class name and _camelCase_, starting with a lowercase letter, for the object property and method names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When defining a class, use _PascalCase_ (starting with a capital letter) for the class name and _camelCase_ (starting with a lowercase letter) for the object property and method names.
```

---
{{MDNSidebar}}

The following guidelines cover writing JavaScript example code for MDN Web Docs. This article is a list of rules for writing concise examples that will be understandable by as many people as possible.

## Principles

### Choosing a format

> How to align and indent JavaScript, where to add spaces, or where to split lines have always been controversial. We believe that these discussions are mostly pointless and very time-consuming.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Opinions on correct indentation, whitespace, or splitting long lines have always been controversial. Discussions on these topics are a distraction from creating and maintaining content.
```

Reviewer 4: I would rephrase to mention that they're distracting rather than pointless :)

> On the other side, using a single convention is helpful: very quickly, readers get used to it and become able to parse the code quicker and better.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A single writing convention is helpful for consistency, and consistent code examples are easier to read and understand.
```

We have decided not to fight for the code convention and to use a code formatter, [Prettier](https://prettier.io/). We hope to be able to run Prettier automatically on our code snippets and to enforce a unique style throughout MDN. Meanwhile, reviewers may ask you to follow Prettier convention (some are tougher than the others). Remember that your code example will get reformated as soon as Prettier runs automatically.

> Prettier deals with formatting, but not with what is the best JavaScript feature to use or doesn't judge if a comment is helpful or not. That's why we have additional conventions.

Reviewer 4: Minor reword
```suggestion
Prettier is effective for code formatting but can't judge if a comment is helpful, for example, or recommend the best JavaScript feature for a specific task. This document describes other conventions that we follow for such cases beyond formatting. 
```

To learn about the convention in detail, read the [Prettier documentation](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html).

### Modern JavaScript features

> You can use the modern and well-supported JavaScript features in MDN Web Docs code examples.

Reviewer 4: I wonder if this section could be a list of __do__ and __don't__ ?

```md
__Do:__
* Use modern and well-supported
* Use new methods
...

__Don't:__
* Use experimental...
```

### One line per statement

In general, we use expanded syntax for JavaScript, meaning that:

- Each line of JavaScript is on a new line.
- The opening brace of a block on the same line as its associated statement, separated with a space from it.
- The closing brace on a new line.

For example, a function definition will look like this:

```js example-good
function myFunc() {
  console.log("Hello!");
};
```

Don't use this style:

```js example-bad
function myFunc() { console.log("Hello!"); };
```

Note that this style will be [enforced by Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html).

There are two exceptions to the rule:

- Early returns after a condition (using `return`, `break`, or `continue`) allow for writing more readable code. The braces and indentation are useless as there is only one statement.

  ```js example-bad
  function myMethod(myParam) {
    actionList = init(myParam);
    if (actionList.length === 0) {
      return 0;
    }

    // No error, we continue
    // …
  }
  ```

  Shortening the `if` statement renders the example easier to understand:

  ```js example-good
  function myMethod(myParam) {
    actionList = init(myParam);

>     if (actionList.length === 0) return 0;

Reviewer: This immediately stands out. It's opposite from what I (and I supposed we) had been trying to enforce in the past few months.

Author: The lack of braces or the hint to return early? (I have no strong feeling here)

Reviewer: The lack of braces, yeah. My personal codings style doesn't add the braces, but I've found the vast majority thinking it's worth it, and I think we've added curlies in quite a few places.

Author: I removed this exception. The only exception is for statements like `break`, `continue`, and `return`.

    // No error, we continue
    // …
  }
  ```
  
- Tests before logging some information.

  You can write:

  ```js example-good
  if (testIsValid) console.log("The test is valid!");
  ```

  The use of braces would be cumbersome:

  ```js example-bad
  if (testIsValid) {
    console.log("The test is valid!");
  }
  ```

All statements must end with semicolons (`;`). Although they're technically optional in JavaScript, we require them in all our code examples because we feel that they convey where each statement ends and make the code clearer. [Enforced by Prettier.](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html)

### Spacing

> Both spacing and indentation are [enforced by Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html). In particular, follow the following rules:

Reviewer 4: Minor:

```suggestion
Both spacing and indentation are [enforced by Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html). The following rules are notable:
```

  }
  ```

There are a few rules about where to add spaces inside the different kinds of brackets ([Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html) enforces these):

- Don't include padding spaces after and before opening and closing parentheses. For example, use `(myVar)`, not `( myVar )`.
- Don't include padding spaces after and before opening and closing square brackets. For example `["red", "green"]`, not `[ "red", "green" ]`.
- But do include padding spaces after and before opening and closing braces. For example `open(data, { option1: "now" })`.

### Indentation and end-of-line character

Mark indentation with _2 spaces_. No tabulation. The end-of-line character is `\n`, the Unix convention. To help you, we have included an [`.editorConfig`](https://editorconfig.org/) file in the repository, and many editors read its content and use it to configure their behavior.

Indentation is [enforced by Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html).

## Comments

Comments are critical to writing good code examples. They clarify the intent of the code and help developers understand it. Pay special attention to them.

> Add a comment if the code isn't obvious or self-documenting. A code is self-documenting, for example, when calling a function with an explicit name: `closeConnection();` doesn't need a comment `// Closing the connection`.

Reviewer 4: There's probably some debate whether any code is self-documenting :)

````suggestion
Add a comment if the purpose or logic of the code isn't obvious. Comments are not necessary, for example, when functions have explicit names that describe what they're doing. This comment doesn't add much value for the reader and can be left out:

```js
closeConnection(); // Closing the connection
```

````

A comment should describe the intention of the author rather than merely describe the code:

```js example-bad
let total = 0;

// For loop from 1 to 4
for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++ ){
  // Add value to the total
  total += arr[i];
}
```

Describing the intention makes the example clearer:

```js example-good
let total = 0;

// Calculate the sum of the four first elements of arr
for (let i = 0; i < 4; i++ ){
  total += arr[i];
}
```

### Use JS-style comments

> JS-style comments are marked with `//`, in opposition to C-style comments enclosed between `/* … */`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
JS-style comments are marked with `//`, as opposed to C-style comments enclosed between `/* … */`.
```

> In general, use JS-style comments to comment code. There is a mark on each line, so it is easier to notice a commented-out line. In addition, this convention allows using `/* …*/` to comment out a section of code while debugging.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In general, use JS-style comments to comment code. Writers must mark each line with `//`, so it's easier to notice commented-out code visually. In addition, this convention allows to comment out sections of code using `/* …*/` while debugging.
```

Leave a space between the slashes and the comment. Start with a capital letter, like if it was a sentence, but don't end the comment with a period.

```js example-good
// This is a well-written JavaScript-style comment
```

Don't write:

```js example-bad
// poor comment
```

Add an empty line if the comment doesn't start immediately after a new indentation level. It will create a code block, making it obvious what the comment refers to.

Put your comments on separate lines preceding the code they are referring to, like:

```js example-good
function myFunc() {
  // Output the string 'Hello' to the browser's JS console
  console.log("Hello");

  // Create and append a new paragraph to the document
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.textContent = "My new paragraph";
  document.body.appendChild(para);
}
```

### Use comments to mark ellipsis

Skipping code is necessary to keep examples short. We should do it carefully, as developers want to copy & paste our example inside their code base. We should try to have our code samples be valid JavaScript.

> In JavaScript, you should put the ellipses (`…`) in a comment. When possible, indicate what action somebody reusing this snippet is expected to add. Don't write:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In JavaScript, you should put the ellipses (`…`) in a comment. When possible, indicate what action somebody reusing this snippet is expected to see. Don't write:
```

```js example-bad
function exampleFct() {
  …
}
```

> Using a comment will be more explicit, preventing errors when a developer copies & pasties the example:

Reviewer 4: yum, pasties 🥐 

```suggestion
Using a comment will be more explicit, preventing errors when a developer copies & pastes the example:
```

```js example-good
function exampleFct() {
  // Add your specific behavior here
  // …
}
```

### Commenting out parameters

When writing code, you usually omit parameters you don't need. But in some code examples, you want to demonstrate that you didn't use some possible parameters.

> To do so, you use `/* … */` in the parameter list. It is an exception to the rule only to use JS-style comments (`//`).

Reviewer 4: sounds good, an example would be great here 👍🏻

Author: Added.

## Variables

### Variable names

> Having good variable names is essential to understanding code. Use short identifiers, and avoid non-common abbreviations. Ideally, a variable name should be between 3 to 10-character long. (This is a hint, it is better to have a 12-character long variable name than to abbreviate it by removing the vowels. The identifier `accelerometer` is better than `acclmtr`).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Having good variable names is essential to understanding code. We advise using short identifiers and avoiding uncommon abbreviations. Good variable names are usually between 3 to 10-character long, but as a hint only. For example, `accelerometer` is more descriptive than abbreviating to `acclmtr` for the sake of character length.
```

Use variable names like shown here:

```js example-good
let playerScore = 0;

let speed = distance / time;
```

Don't name variables like this:

```js example-bad
let thisIsaveryLONGVariableThatRecordsPlayerscore345654 = 0;

let s = d/t;
```

> **Note:** The only place where it's allowed not to use human-readable, semantic names is where a very commonly recognized convention exists, such as using `i` and `j` for loop iterators.

### Variable declarations

When declaring variables and constants, use the [`let`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/let) and [`const`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/const) keywords, not [`var`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/var). The following examples show what's recommended and what's not on MDN Web Docs:

- If a variable will not be reassigned, prefer `const`, like so:

  ```js example-good
  const myName = "Chris";
  console.log(myName);
  ```

- If you'll change the value of a variable, use `let` as shown below:

  ```js example-good
  let myAge = "40";
  myAge++;
  console.log("Happy birthday!");
  ```

> - The example below uses `let` where it should prefer `const`. The code will work, but we want to avoid this usage in MDN Web Docs code examples.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The example below uses `let` where it should be `const`. The code will work, but we want to avoid this usage in MDN Web Docs code examples.
```

  ```js example-bad
  let var1, var2;
  let var3 = var4 = "Apapou";
  ```

  But write:

  ```js example-good
  let var1;
  let var2;
  let var3 = "Apapou";
  let var4 = var3;
  ```

### Type coercion

  Avoid old idioms when forcing a value to a type. In particular, avoid `+val` to force a value to a number and `"" + val` to force it to a string. Use `Number()` and `String()`, without new, instead.

  ```js example-bad
  class Person {
    #name;
    #birthYear;
    
    function Person(name, year) {
      this.#name = "" + name;
      this.#birthYear = +year;
    }
  };
  ```

  The correct way is:

  ```js example-good
  class Person {
    #name;
    #birthYear;
    
    function Person(name, year) {
      this.#name = String(name);
      this.#birthYear = Number(year);
    }
  };
  ```

## Operators

### Conditional operators

[Conditional (or ternary) operators](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Conditional_Operator) should be used when returning a value.
When possible, put on a single line, as shown below:

```js example-good
let status = (age >= 18) ? 'adult' : 'minor';
```

> If needed (if the line is too long), Prettier will nest the conditional operators:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If needed (if the line is too long), Prettier will add line breaks with indentation to conditional operators:
```

for (let i = 0; i < gerbils.length; i++) {
  console.log(`Gerbil #${i}: ${gerbils[i]}`);
}
```

```js example-good
const gerbils = ["Zoé", "Chloé"];
gerbils.forEach((gerbil, i) => {
  console.log(`Gerbil #${i}: ${gerbil}`);
})
```

> **Warning:** Never use `for...in` with arrays and strings.

> **Note:** Consider not using a for loop at all. If you are using an [`Array`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) (or even a [`String`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String) for some of them), consider instead using methods iterating over each element of the collection, like [`map()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map), [`every()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/every), or finding methods like[`findIndex()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/findIndex), [`findLast()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/findLast), or [`includes()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/includes), and many more.

### Control statements (if...else)

[Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html) will enforce that:

> - There is _a space_ between a control statement keyword (`if` or `ekse`) and its opening parenthesis.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- There is _a space_ between a control statement keyword (`if` or `else`) and its opening parenthesis.
```

  // …
  return;
} else {
  // Perform something if test is false
  // …
}
```

The correct way is:

```js example-good
if (test) {
  // Perform something if test is true
  // …
  return;
}

// Perform something if test is false
// …
```

### Switch statements

[Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html) will enforce switch statements to be formatted like this:

```js example-good
const expr = 'Papayas';
switch (expr) {
  case 'Oranges':
    console.log('Oranges are $0.59 a pound.');
    break;
  case 'Papayas':
    console.log('Mangoes and papayas are $2.79 a pound.');
    break;
  default:
    console.log(`Sorry, we are out of ${expr}`);
}
```

- There should be _a space_ between the `switch` keyword and its opening parenthesis.
- There should be _a space_ between the parentheses or the colon and the opening curly brace, if any.
- Note the position of the break indented from the `case` keyword: we indent the code inside the case.
- Don't put a `break` after a `return` statement in a specific case.

In addition to these rules:

- Put `default` as the last case, and don't end it with a `break`. If you need to do it differently, add a comment explaining why.

> - Pay attention! When you declare a local variable for a case, you need to use braces to define a scope:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- __When you declare a local variable__ for a case, you need to use braces to define a scope:
```

Author: I rephrased it, thanks.

Note that we don't use `__` for bold, but `**` (and we use `_` for italics, and not `*`)

  ```js
  switch (fruits) {
    case 'Orange': {
      let slice = fruit.slice();
      eat(slice);
      break;
    }
    case 'Apple': {
      let core = fruit.extractCore();
      recycle(core);
      break;
    }
  }  
  ```

### Error handling

If certain states of your program throw uncaught errors, they will halt execution and potentially reduce the usefulness of the example. You should therefore catch errors using a [`try...catch`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch) block, as shown below:

```js example-good
try {
  console.log(getResult());
} catch (e) {
  console.error(e);
}
```

> [Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html) enforces this format.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html) enforces the following conventions.
```

When you don't need the parameter of the `catch` statement, omit it:

```js example-good
  try {
    console.log(getResult());
  } catch {
    console.error("An error happened!");
  }
```

Not writing the parameter list is called _optional catch binding_ and has been available in every browser since 2019.

## Strings

> String literals can be enclosed with single quotes, like "A string", with double quotes, like `"A string"`. Which type of literal to use is the subject of never-ending discussions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
String literals can be enclosed with single quotes, like `'A string'`, or with double quotes, like `"A string"`.
```

In general, use JS-style comments to comment code. Writers must mark each line with `//`, so it's easier to notice commented-out code visually. In addition, this convention allows to comment out sections of code using `/* …*/` while debugging.

Leave a space between the slashes and the comment. Start with a capital letter, like if it was a sentence, but don't end the comment with a period.

```js example-good
// This is a well-written JavaScript-style comment
```

Don't write:

```js example-bad
// poor comment
```

Add an empty line if the comment doesn't start immediately after a new indentation level. It will create a code block, making it obvious what the comment refers to.

Put your comments on separate lines preceding the code they are referring to, like:

```js example-good
function myFunc() {
  // Output the string 'Hello' to the browser's JS console
  console.log("Hello");

  // Create and append a new paragraph to the document
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.textContent = "My new paragraph";
  document.body.appendChild(para);
}
```

### Use comments to mark ellipsis

> Skipping code is necessary to keep examples short. We should do it carefully, as developers want to copy & paste our example inside their code base. We should try to have our code samples be valid JavaScript.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Skipping redundant code is necessary to keep examples short. Still, writers should do it thoughtfully as developers frequently copy & paste examples into their code, and all of our code samples should be valid JavaScript.
```

In general, use single-line comments to comment code. Writers must mark each line of the comment with `//`, so that it's easier to notice commented-out code visually. In addition, this convention allows to comment out sections of code using `/* … */` while debugging.

- Leave a space between the slashes and the comment. Start with a capital letter, like a sentence, but don't end the comment with a period.

  ```js example-good
  // This is a well-written single-line comment
  ```

- If a comment doesn't start immediately after a new indentation level, add an empty line and then add the comment. It will create a code block, making it obvious what the comment refers to. Also, put your comments on separate lines preceding the code they are referring to. This is shown in the following example:

  ```js example-good
  function checkout(goodsPrice, shipmentPrice, taxes) {
    // Calculate the total price
    const total = goodsPrice + shipmentPrice + taxes;

    // Create and append a new paragraph to the document
    const para = document.createElement('p');
    para.textContent = `Total price is ${total}`;
    document.body.appendChild(para);
  }
  ```

### Output of logs

> - In examples, but rarely in production code, we often use `console.log()`, `console.error()`, or similar functions to output messages. In such cases, you can put a comment after the function with the log that will be produced. Write:

Author: I've rewritten it. Commit incoming.

In JavaScript, you should put the ellipses (`…`) in a comment. When possible, indicate what action somebody reusing this snippet is expected to add.

Using a comment for the ellipses (…) is more explicit, preventing errors when a developer copies and pastes a sample code. Write:

```js example-good
function exampleFunct() {
  // Add your code here
  // …
}
```

Don't use ellipses (…) like this:

```js example-bad
function exampleFunct() {
  …
}
```

### Comment out parameters

When writing code, you usually omit parameters you don't need. But in some code examples, you want to demonstrate that you didn't use some possible parameters.

To do so, use `/* … */` in the parameter list. This is an exception to the rule to only use single-line comments (`//`).

```js
array.forEach((value, /* index,  array ,*/) => {
  // …
};
```

## Variables

### Variable names

Good variable names are essential to understanding code.

- Use short identifiers, and avoid non-common abbreviations. Good variable names are usually between 3 to 10-character long, but as a hint only. For example, `accelerometer` is more descriptive than abbreviating to `acclmtr` for the sake of character length.

> - Do not use the [Hungarian notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungarian_notation) naming convention. Do not prefix the variable name with its type. For example, write `bought = car.buyer !== null` rather than `bBought = oCar.sBuyer != null`, or `name = "John Doe"` instead of `sName = "John Doe"`.
> - For collections, avoid adding the type (list, array, queue) in the name. Use the content name in the plural form. For example, for an array of cars, use `cars` and not `carArray` or `carList`. There may be exceptions, like when you want to show the abstract form of a feature without the context of a particular application.
> - For primitive values, use _camelCase_, starting with a lowercase character. Do not use `_`. Use concise, human-readable, and semantic names where appropriate. For example, use `currencyName` rather than `currency_name`.
> - Avoid using articles and possessives. For example, use `car` instead of `myCar` or `aCar`. There may be exceptions, like when describing a feature in general, without a practical context.
> - Use variable names like shown here:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do not use the [Hungarian notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hungarian_notation) naming convention. Do not prefix the variable name with its type. For example, write `bought = car.buyer !== null` rather than `bBought = oCar.sBuyer != null` or `name = "John Doe"` instead of `sName = "John Doe"`.
- For collections, avoid adding the type such as list, array, queue in the name. Use the content name in the plural form. For example, for an array of cars, use `cars` and not `carArray` or `carList`. There may be exceptions, like when you want to show the abstract form of a feature without the context of a particular application.
- For primitive values, use _camelCase_, starting with a lowercase character. Do not use `_`. Use concise, human-readable, and semantic names where appropriate. For example, use `currencyName` rather than `currency_name`.
- Avoid using articles and possessives. For example, use `car` instead of `myCar` or `aCar`. There may be exceptions, like when describing a feature in general without a practical context.
- Use variable names as shown here:
```

- If a variable will not be reassigned, prefer `const`, like so:

  ```js example-good
  const name = "Chris";
  console.log(name);
  ```

- If you'll change the value of a variable, use `let` as shown below:

  ```js example-good
  let age = "40";
  age++;
  console.log("Happy birthday!");
  ```

- The example below uses `let` where it should be `const`. The code will work, but we want to avoid this usage in MDN Web Docs code examples.

  ```js example-bad
  let name = "Chris";
  console.log(myName);
  ```

- The example below uses `const` for a variable that gets reassigned. The reassignment will throw an error.

  ```js example-bad
  const age = "40";
  age++;
  console.log("Happy birthday!");
  ```

- The example below uses `var`, polluting the global scope:

  ```js example-bad
  var age = "40";
  var name = "Chris";
  ```

- Declare one variable per line, like so:

  ```js example-good
  let var1;
  let var2;
  let var3 = "Apapou";
  let var4 = var3;
  ```
  
  Do not declare multiple variables in one line, separating them with commas or using chain declaration. Avoid declaring variables like this:

  ```js example-bad
  let var1, var2;

>   let var3 = var4 = "Apapou";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  let var3 = var4 = "Apapou"; // var4 is implicitly created as a global variable; fails in strict mode
```

  ```

### Type coercion

Avoid old idioms when forcing a value to a type. In particular, avoid `+val` to force a value to a number and `"" + val` to force it to a string. Use `Number()` and `String()`, without new, instead. Write:

```js example-good
class Person {
  #name;
  #birthYear;
  
  constructor(name, year) {
    this.#name = String(name);
    this.#birthYear = Number(year);
  }

> };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

```

Don't write:

```js example-bad
class Person {
  #name;
  #birthYear;
  
  constructor(name, year) {
    this.#name = "" + name;
    this.#birthYear = +year;
  }

> };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

```

## Operators

This section lists our recommendations of which operators to use and when.

### Conditional operators

When you want to store to a variable a literal value depending on a condition, use a [conditional (ternary) operator](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Conditional_Operator) instead of an `if...else` statement. This rule also applies when returning a value. Write:

```js example-good

> let x = condition ? 1 : 2;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const x = condition ? 1 : 2;
```

Continue right after the `if` statement. Write:

```js example-good
if (test) {
  // Perform something if test is true
  // …
  return;
}

// Perform something if test is false
// …
```

Do not write:

```js example-bad
if (test) {
  // Perform something if test is true
  // …
  return;
} else {
  // Perform something if test is false
  // …
}
```

### Use braces with control flow statements and loops

While control flow statements like `if`, `for`, and `while` don't require the use of braces when the content is made of one single statement, you should always use braces. Write:

```js example-good
for (const car of storedCars) {
  car.paint("red");
}
```

Don't write:

```js example-bad
for (const car of storedCars) car.paint("red");
```

This prevent forgetting to add the braces when adding more statements.

### Switch statements

Switch statements can be a little tricky.

- First, don't put a `break` after a `return` statement in a specific case. Do write:

  ```js example-good
  switch (species) {
    case `chicken`:
      return farm.shed;
    case `horse`:
      return corral.entry;
    default:
      return "";
  }
  ```

>   If you add a `break`, it will be unreachable. Do not write:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If you add a `break` statement, it will be unreachable. Do not write:
```
Can we replace 'it' here to say what will be unreachable?

  ```js example-bad
  switch (species) {
    case `chicken`:
      return farm.shed;
      break;
    case `horse`:
      return corral.entry;
      break;
    default:
      return "";
  }
  ```

> - Put `default` as the last case, and don't end it with a `break`. If you need to do it differently, add a comment explaining why.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use `default` as the last case, and don't end it with a `break` statement. If you need to do it differently, add a comment explaining why.
```

> - Remember that, when you declare a local variable for a case, you need to use braces to define a scope:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Remember that when you declare a local variable for a case, you need to use braces to define a scope:
```

  ```js example-good
  try {
    console.log(getResult());
  } catch (e) {
    console.error(e);
  }
  ```

- When you don't need the parameter of the `catch` statement, omit it:

  ```js example-good
    try {
      console.log(getResult());
    } catch {
      console.error("An error happened!");
    }
  ```

> **Note:** Keep in mind that only _recoverable_ errors should be caught and handled. All non-recoverable errors should be let through and bubble up the call stack.

## Strings

String literals can be enclosed within single quotes, as in `'A string'`, or within double quotes, as in `"A string"`. Don't worry about which one to use; Prettier keeps it consistent.

### Template literals

For inserting values into strings, use [template literals](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals).

- Here is an example of the recommended way to use template literals. Their use prevents a lot of spacing errors.

  ```js example-good

>   let name = 'Chris';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const name = 'Chris';
```

  console.log(`Hi! I'm ${name}!`);
  ```

  Don't concatenate strings like this:

  ```js example-bad

>   let name = 'Chris';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const name = 'Chris';
```

  console.log("Hi! I'm" + name + "!");
  ```

- Don't overuse template literals. If there are no substitutions, use a normal string literal instead.

## Arrays

### Array creation

For creating arrays, use literals and not constructors.

Create arrays like this:

```js example-good
const visitedCities = [];
```

Don't do this while creating arrays:

```js example-bad
const visitedCities = new Array(length);
```

### Item addition

> When adding items to an array, use [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) and not direct assignment. Let's consider the following array:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When adding items to an array, use [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) and not direct assignment. Consider the following array:
```

```js
const pets = [];
```

Add items to the array like this:

```js example-good
pets.push("cat");
```

Don't add items to the array like this:

```js example-bad
pets[pets.length] = "cat";
```

## Objects

### Object names

- When defining a class, use _PascalCase_ (starting with a capital letter) for the class name and _camelCase_ (starting with a lowercase letter) for the object property and method names.

- When defining an object instance, either a literal or via a constructor, use _camelCase_, starting with lower-case character, for the instance name. For example:

  ```js example-good
  const hanSolo = new Person('Han Solo', 25, 'male');

  const luke = {
    name: 'Luke Skywalker',
    age: 25,
    gender: 'male'
  };
  ```

### Object creation

For creating general objects (i.e., when classes are not involved), use literals and not constructors.

For example, do this:

```js example-good

> let object = {};

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const object = {};
```

```

Don't create a general object like this:

```js example-bad
let object = new Object();
```

### Object classes

- Use ES class syntax for objects, not old-style constructors.

  For example, this is the recommended way:

  ```js example-good
  class Person {
    constructor(name, age, gender) {
      this.name = name;
      this.age = age;
      this.gender = gender;
    }

    greeting() {
      console.log(`Hi! I'm ${this.name}`);

>     };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    }
```

  }
  ```

- Use `extends` for inheritance:

  ```js example-good
  class Teacher extends Person {
    // …
  }
  ```

### Methods

To define methods, use the method definition syntax:

```js example-good
const obj = {
  foo() {
    // …
  },
  bar() {
    // …
  }
}
```

Instead of:

```js example-bad
const obj = {
  foo: function () {
    // …
  },
  bar: function () {
    // …
  }
}
```

### Object properties

- The `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty()` method has been deprecated in favor of `Object.hasOwn()`.
- When possible, use the shorthand avoiding the duplication of the property identifier. Write:

  ```js example-good
  function createObject(name, age) {
    return { name, age };  
  }
  ```
  
  Don't write:
  
  ```js example-bad
  function createObject(name, age) {
    return { name: name, age: age };
  }
  ```

## Functions

### Function names

For function names, use camelCase, starting with a lowercase character. Use concise, human-readable, and semantic names where appropriate.

The following is a correct example of a function name:

```js example-good
function sayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!');

> };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

```

Don't use function names like these:

```js example-bad
function SayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!');

> };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

function doIt() {
  console.log('Hello!');

> };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

```

### Function declarations

> - Where possible, use the `function` declaration to define functions over function expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Where possible, use the function declaration over function expressions to define functions.
```

  Here is the recommended way to declare a function:

  ```js example-good
  function sum(a, b) {
    return a + b;
  }
  ```

  This is not a good way to define a function:

  ```js example-bad
  let sum = function(a, b) {
    return a + b;
  }
  ```

- When using anonymous functions as a callback (a function passed to another method invocation), if you do not need to access `this`, use an arrow function to make the code shorter and cleaner.

  Here is the recommended way:

  ```js example-good
  const array1 = [1, 2, 3, 4];

>   let sum = array1.reduce((a, b) => a + b);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const sum = array1.reduce((a, b) => a + b);
```

  ```

  Instead of this:

  ```js example-bad
  const array1 = [1, 2, 3, 4];

>   let sum = array1.reduce(function (a, b) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const sum = array1.reduce(function (a, b) {
```

  const x = () => {
    // …
  };
  ```

- When using arrow functions, use [implicit return](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions#function_body) (also known as _concise body_) when possible:

  ```js example-good
  arr.map((e) => e.id);
  ```

  And not:

  ```js example-bad
  arr.map((e) => { 
    return e.id;
  });
  ```

## Asynchronous methods

Writing asynchronous code improves performance and should be used when possible. In particular, you can use:

- [Promises](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
- [`async`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function)/[`await`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/await)

When both techniques are possible, we prefer using the simpler `async`/`await` syntax. Unfortunately, you can't use `await` at the top level unless you are in an ECMAScript module. CommonJS modules used by Node.js are not ES modules. If your example is intended to be used everywhere, avoid top-level `await`.

## Web APIs to avoid

In addition to these JavaScript language features, we recommend a few guidelines related to Web APIs to keep in mind.

### Avoid browser prefixes

> If all major browser (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari) supports a feature, don't prefix it. Write:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If all major browsers (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari) support a feature, don't prefix the feature. Write:
```

### Avoid deprecated APIs

When a method, a property, or a whole interface is deprecated, do not use it (outside its documentation). Instead, use the modern API.

Here is a non-exhaustive list of Web APIs to avoid and what to replace them with:

- Use `fetch()` instead of XHR (`XMLHttpRequest`).
- Use `AudioWorklet` instead of `ScriptProcessorNode`, in the Web Audio API.

### Use safe and reliable APIs

- Do not use {{DOMxRef("Element.innerHTML")}} to insert purely textual content into an element; use {{DOMxRef("Node.textContent")}} instead. The property `innerHTML` leads to security problems if a developer doesn't control the parameter. The more we as writers avoid using it, the fewer security flaws are created when a developer copies and pastes our code.

  The example below demonstrates the use of `textContent`.

  ```js example-good
  const text = 'Hello to all you good people';
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.textContent = text;
  ```

  Don't use `innerHTML` to insert _pure text_ into DOM nodes.

  ```js example-bad
  const text = 'Hello to all you good people';
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.innerHTML = text;
  ```

> - The `alert()` function is unreliable. It doesn't work in live examples on MDN that are inside an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}. Moreover, it is modal to the whole window, which is annoying. In static code examples, , use `console.log()` or `console.error()`. In [live examples](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Live_samples), avoid `console.log()` and `console.error()` as they are not displayed. Use a dedicated UI element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `alert()` function is unreliable. It doesn't work in live examples on MDN Web Docs that are inside an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}. Moreover, it is modal to the whole window, which is annoying. In static code examples, use `console.log()` or `console.error()`. In [live examples](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Live_samples), avoid `console.log()` and `console.error()` because they are not displayed. Use a dedicated UI element.
```
note the two commas after "In static code examples"

## General guidelines for JavaScript code examples

This section explains the general guidelines to keep in mind while writing JavaScript code examples. The later sections will cover more specific details.

### Choosing a format

Opinions on correct indentation, whitespace, and line lengths have always been controversial. Discussions on these topics are a distraction from creating and maintaining content.

On MDN Web Docs, we use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) as a code formatter to keep the code style consistent (and to avoid off-topic discussions). You can consult our [configuration file](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/.prettierrc.json) to learn about the current rules.

To learn more about the formatting conventions used on MDN Web Docs, read the [Prettier documentation](https://prettier.io/docs/en/index.html).

### Using modern JavaScript features

You can use new features once every major browser — Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari — supports them.

## Generic syntax style

> Prettier formats all the code and keeps the style consistent. Nevertheless, there are a few additional rules that you need to follow.

Reviewer: There's only one subheading here and frankly I can't think of any extensions. Maybe merge it with the previous H2 heading?

### Output of logs

- In code intended to run in a production environment, you rarely need to comment when you log some data. In code examples, we often use `console.log()`, `console.error()`, or similar functions to output important values. To help the reader understand what will happen without running the code, you can put a comment _after_ the function with the log that will be produced. Write:

  ```js example-good
  function exampleFunc(fruitBasket) {
    console.log(fruitBasket); // ['banana', 'mango', 'orange']
  }
  ```

  Don't write:

  ```js example-bad
  function exampleFunc(fruitBasket) {
    // Logs: ['banana', 'mango', 'orange']
    console.log(fruitBasket);
  }
  ```

- In case the line becomes too long, put the comment _after_ the function, like this:

  ```js example-good
  function exampleFunc(fruitBasket) {
    console.log(fruitBasket); 
    // ['banana', 'mango', 'orange', 'apple', 'pear', 'durian', 'lemon']
  }
  ````

### Multi-line comments

Short comments are usually better, so try to keep them in one line of 60–80 characters. If this is not possible, use `//` at the beginning of each line:

```js example-good
// This is an example of a multi-line comment.

> // The imaginary function that follows has some unusual limitation that I want to call out.

Reviewer: This line is long and wraps on average laptops. Maybe:

```suggestion
// The imaginary function that follows has some unusual
// limitations that I want to call out.
```

(Also a grammar fix)

  The imaginary function that follows has some unusual limitation that I want to call out.
  Limitation 1
  Limitation 2 */

```

### Use comments to mark ellipsis

Skipping redundant code using ellipses (…) is necessary to keep examples short. Still, writers should do it thoughtfully as developers frequently copy & paste examples into their code, and all of our code samples should be valid JavaScript.

In JavaScript, you should put the ellipses (`…`) in a comment. When possible, indicate what action somebody reusing this snippet is expected to add.

Using a comment for the ellipses (…) is more explicit, preventing errors when a developer copies and pastes a sample code. Write:

```js example-good
function exampleFunct() {
  // Add your code here
  // …
}
```

Don't use ellipses (…) like this:

```js example-bad
function exampleFunct() {
  …
}
```

### Comment out parameters

When writing code, you usually omit parameters you don't need. But in some code examples, you want to demonstrate that you didn't use some possible parameters.

To do so, use `/* … */` in the parameter list. This is an exception to the rule to only use single-line comments (`//`).

```js

> array.forEach((value, /* index,  array ,*/) => {
>   // …
> };

Reviewer: ```suggestion
array.forEach((value, /* index, array */) => {
  // …
});
```

Continue right after the `if` statement. Write:

```js example-good
if (test) {
  // Perform something if test is true
  // …
  return;
}

// Perform something if test is false
// …
```

Do not write:

```js example-bad
if (test) {
  // Perform something if test is true
  // …
  return;
} else {
  // Perform something if test is false
  // …
}
```

### Use braces with control flow statements and loops

While control flow statements like `if`, `for`, and `while` don't require the use of braces when the content is made of one single statement, you should always use braces. Write:

```js example-good
for (const car of storedCars) {
  car.paint("red");
}
```

Don't write:

```js example-bad
for (const car of storedCars) car.paint("red");
```

This prevent forgetting to add the braces when adding more statements.

### Switch statements

Switch statements can be a little tricky.

- Don't add a `break` statement after a `return` statement in a specific case. Instead, write `return` statements like this:

  ```js example-good
  switch (species) {

>     case `chicken`:

Reviewer: Use normal quotes

  ```js example-bad
  switch (species) {
    case `chicken`:
      return farm.shed;
      break;
    case `horse`:
      return corral.entry;
      break;
    default:
      return "";
  }
  ```

- Use `default` as the last case, and don't end it with a `break` statement. If you need to do it differently, add a comment explaining why.

- Remember that when you declare a local variable for a case, you need to use braces to define a scope:

  ```js
  switch (fruits) {
    case 'Orange': {
      const slice = fruit.slice();
      eat(slice);
      break;
    }
    case 'Apple': {
      const core = fruit.extractCore();
      recycle(core);
      break;
    }
  }  
  ```

### Error handling

- If certain states of your program throw uncaught errors, they will halt execution and potentially reduce the usefulness of the example. You should, therefore, catch errors using a [`try...catch`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch) block, as shown below:

  ```js example-good
  try {
    console.log(getResult());
  } catch (e) {
    console.error(e);
  }
  ```

- When you don't need the parameter of the `catch` statement, omit it:

  ```js example-good

>     try {
>       console.log(getResult());
>     } catch {
>       console.error("An error happened!");
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  try {
    console.log(getResult());
  } catch {
    console.error("An error happened!");
  }
```

  const hanSolo = new Person('Han Solo', 25, 'male');

  const luke = {
    name: 'Luke Skywalker',
    age: 25,
    gender: 'male'
  };
  ```

### Object creation

For creating general objects (i.e., when classes are not involved), use literals and not constructors.

For example, do this:

```js example-good
const object = {};
```

Don't create a general object like this:

```js example-bad
let object = new Object();
```

### Object classes

- Use ES class syntax for objects, not old-style constructors.

  For example, this is the recommended way:

  ```js example-good
  class Person {
    constructor(name, age, gender) {
      this.name = name;
      this.age = age;
      this.gender = gender;
    }

    greeting() {
      console.log(`Hi! I'm ${this.name}`);
    }
  }
  ```

- Use `extends` for inheritance:

  ```js example-good
  class Teacher extends Person {
    // …
  }
  ```

### Methods

To define methods, use the method definition syntax:

```js example-good
const obj = {
  foo() {
    // …
  },
  bar() {
    // …
  }
}
```

Instead of:

```js example-bad
const obj = {
  foo: function () {
    // …
  },
  bar: function () {
    // …
  }
}
```

### Object properties

> - The `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty()` method has been deprecated in favor of `Object.hasOwn()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [`Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/hasOwnProperty) method has been deprecated in favor of [`Object.hasOwn()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/hasOwn).
```

}
```

### Object properties

The `Object.hasOwnProperties()` method has been deprecated in favor of `Object.hasOwn()`.

## Functions and classes

### Function names

For function names, use lowerCamelCasing. Use concise, human-readable, and semantic names where appropriate.

The following is a correct example of a function name:

```js example-good
function sayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};
```

Don't use function names like these:

```js example-bad
function SayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};

> function notVeryObviousName() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function doIt() {
```

  console.log('Hello!');
};
```

### Function declarations

Where possible, use the `function` declaration to define functions over function expressions:

Here is the recommended way to declare a function:

```js example-good
function sum(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

This is not a good way to define a function:

```js example-bad
let sum = function(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

> When using anonymous functions inside a method that requires a function as a parameter, when you do not need to bind `this`, use an arrow function to make the code shorter and cleaner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using anonymous functions as a callback (a function passed to another method invocation) and you do not need to access `this`, use an arrow function to make the code shorter and cleaner.
```

Author: Fixed.

}
```

### Checking object properties

The `Object.hasOwnProperties()` method has been deprecated in favor of `Object.hasOwn()`.

> ## Functions and classes

Author: I have to read the section again (I find it odd that there is no mention of classes).

The reason why I grouped both is that, in JavaScript, classes are syntactic sugar over functions.

> ## Functions and classes

Author: You were right, I removed classes (they are handled under Objects)

### Function names

For function names, use lowerCamelCasing. Use concise, human-readable, and semantic names where appropriate.

The following is a correct example of a function name:

```js example-good
function sayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};
```

Don't use function names like these:

```js example-bad
function SayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};

function notVeryObviousName() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};
```

### Function declarations

Where possible, use the `function` declaration to define functions over function expressions:

Here is the recommended way to declare a function:

```js example-good
function sum(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

Here is not a good way to define a function:

```js example-bad
let sum = function(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

When using anonymous functions inside a method that requires a function as a parameter, when you do not need to bind `this`, use an arrow function to make the code shorter and cleaner.

Here is the recommended way:

```js example-good

> const array1 = [1, 2, 3, 4];
> let sum = array1.reduce((a, b) =>
>   a + b
> );

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const array1 = [1, 2, 3, 4];
let sum = array1.reduce((a, b) => a + b);
```

(Prettier will do this anyway)

```

Instead of this:

```js example-bad
const array1 = [1, 2, 3, 4];
let sum = array1.reduce(function (a, b) {
  return a + b;
});
```

When using arrow functions, use [implicit return](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions#function_body) (also known as _concise body_) when possible:

```js example-good
arr.map((e) => e.id);
```

And not:

```js example-bad
arr.map((e) => { 
  return e.id
});
```

> Use the method definition syntax:

Reviewer 3: I would expect this to be in "objects" above, where we talk about using `class` (and actually have an example of this syntax).

Author: @wbamberg, The reason I move this down here is this is not a JavaScript guideline but a Web API one. `.innerHTML` and `.textContent` are part of the DOM.

Maybe, in the future, we'll want to expand this section (we need to assess what Web APIs we want to avoid in our examples) and maybe move it to its specific page (_Web APIs to avoid_ or similar)

Reviewer 3: I was referring to " Use the method definition syntax:" in https://pr19929.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide/Code_style_guide/JavaScript#functions_and_classes .

Author: Sorry, I mixed the lines (so many comments 😄 ). Yes, you are right. Moving this up.

```js example-good
const obj = {
  foo() {
    // ...
  },
  bar() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

Instead of:

```js example-bad
const obj = {
  foo: function () {
    // ...
  },
  bar: function () {
    // ...
  }
}
```

## Asynchronous methods

Writing asynchronous code improves performance and should be used when possible. In particular, you can use:

> - [Promises](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), including the `finally()` method,
> - [`async`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function)/[`await`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/await).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Promises](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), including the `finally()` method
- [`async`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function)/[`await`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/await)
```

> When both techniques are possible, we don't have any preference.

Reviewer 3: I have a preference for using async/await for promise chaining.

Author: That's an interesting point.

I also would if there wasn't still a limitation about not having any `async` at the top level (outside a module)

I think it is worth discussing. To keep all the discussions together, can you propose this in [mdn discussion](https://github.com/orgs/mdn/discussions/143) as a new suggested answer? That's how I determined if there was a consensus or not about the different features. Thank you, @wbamberg!

> Top-level await is supported only in the [ECMAScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ECMAScript) module, and [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) and [Express](https://expressjs.com/) use [CommonJS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CommonJS) modules. However, support for the ECMAScript module has been added in Node.js. So, instead of using require to fetch the modules, I use import in the entire app. CommonJS does not support top-level await.

Reviewer: Right—top level await is not at all well supported and could be confusing when it doesn't work. I would say promise chaining at the top level but use async functions where we can (but preferably not async IIFEs because those look... ugly)

Author: I will write to use async/await when possible and to keep in mind that if the code is intended to be used anywhere (at the top level), it isn't possible.

Let me think about how to phrase this.

## Web APIs to avoid

> In addition to these JS language features, there are few guidelines related to Web APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to these JavaScript language features, we reccomend a few guidelines related to Web APIs to keep in mind.
```

### Avoid browser prefixes

> If all browser supports a feature, don't prefix it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If all browsers support a feature, don't prefix it.
```

Author: ```suggestion
If all major browser (Chrome, Edge, Firefox, and Safari) supports a feature, don't prefix it.
```

```js example-bad
const AudioContext = window.AudioContext || window.webkitAudioContext;
const context = new AudioContext();
```

> should be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above snippet should be:
```

```js example-good
const context = new AudioContext();
```

The same rule applies to CSS prefixes.

### Avoid deprecated APIs

When a method, a property, or a whole interface is deprecated, do not use it (outside its documentation). Instead, use the modern API.

Here is a non-exhaustive list of Web APIs to avoid and what to replace them with:

- Use `fetch()` instead of XHR (`XMLHttpRequest`).
- Use `AudioWorklet` instead of `ScriptProcessorNode`, in the Web Audio API.

### Use safe and reliable APIs

> - Do not use {{DOMxRef("Element.innerHTML")}} to insert purely textual content into an element, use {{DOMxRef("Node.textContent")}} instead. The property `innerHTML` leads to security problems if the developer doesn't control the parameter. The more we avoid it, the fewer security flaws are created by copying & pasting our code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Do not use {{DOMxRef("Element.innerHTML")}} to insert purely textual content into an element; use {{DOMxRef("Node.textContent")}} instead. The property `innerHTML` leads to security problems if a developer doesn't control the parameter. The more we as writers avoid using it, the fewer security flaws are created when a developer copies and pastes our code.
```

  The example below demonstrates the use of `textContent`.

  ```js example-good
  let text = 'Hello to all you good people';
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.textContent = text;
  ```

  Don't use `innerHTML` to insert _pure text_ into DOM nodes.

  ```js example-bad
  let text = 'Hello to all you good people';
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.innerHTML = text;
  ```

> - The `alert()` function is unreliable. It doesn't work in live example on MDN that are inside an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}. Moreover, it is a modal to the whole window, which is annoying. Instead, use `console.log()` or `console.error()`, the {{HTMLElement("dialog")}} element, or a dedicated UI element in your example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `alert()` function is unreliable. It doesn't work in live examples on MDN Web Docs that are inside an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}. Moreover, it is a modal to the whole window, which is annoying. Instead, use `console.log()` or `console.error()`, the {{HTMLElement("dialog")}} element, or a dedicated UI element in your example code.
```

Reviewer 3: We might want to say: in live samples, use "a dedicated UI element". I think using `console.log` in live samples is problematic. We should also probably link to live samples from here.

(actually I think it would be cool if live samples had a built-in "dedicated UI element" instead of making people reimplement it. Maybe we should look into this...)

Author: Fixed.

And I agree having a dedicated UI element for live examples would be great. I'll even dream of uniformizing the way we log stuff in our mdn/dom-examples & co repositories (one time a `<p>` is used, another a `<textarea>`, a `<pre>` or an `<output>`, directly or via a `log()` function or even a `Log()` class.

### Use the appropriate log method

> - When logging a message, use `console.log()`. When logging an error, use `console.error()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When logging a message, use `console.log()`.
- When logging an error, use `console.error()`.
```

## See also

> - [JavaScript language reference](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference) - browse through our JavaScript reference pages to check out some good, concise, meaningful CSS snippets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[JavaScript language reference](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference) - browse through our JavaScript reference pages to check out some good, concise, meaningful CSS snippets.
```

}
```

### Methods

To define methods, use the method definition syntax:

```js example-good
const obj = {
  foo() {
    // ...
  },
  bar() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

Instead of:

```js example-bad
const obj = {
  foo: function () {
    // ...
  },
  bar: function () {
    // ...
  }
}
```

### Object properties

> The `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty()` method has been deprecated in favor of `Object.hasOwn()`.

Reviewer: Mention that we want to use shorthand. `{ name, age }` instead of `{ name: name, age: age }`.

Author: Mentioned

## Functions

### Function names

For function names, use camelCase, starting with a lowercase character. Use concise, human-readable, and semantic names where appropriate.

The following is a correct example of a function name:

```js example-good
function sayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};
```

Don't use function names like these:

```js example-bad
function SayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};

function doIt() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};
```

### Function declarations

Where possible, use the `function` declaration to define functions over function expressions.

Here is the recommended way to declare a function:

```js example-good
function sum(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

This is not a good way to define a function:

```js example-bad
let sum = function(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

> When using anonymous functions inside as a callback (a function passed to another method invocation) and you do not need to access `this`, use an arrow function to make the code shorter and cleaner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using anonymous functions as a callback (a function passed to another method invocation) and you do not need to access `this`, use an arrow function to make the code shorter and cleaner.
```

Here is the recommended way:

```js example-good
const array1 = [1, 2, 3, 4];
let sum = array1.reduce((a, b) => a + b);
```

Instead of this:

```js example-bad
const array1 = [1, 2, 3, 4];
let sum = array1.reduce(function (a, b) {
  return a + b;
});
```

> Consider avoiding using arrow function to assign a function to an identifier. In particular, don't use arrow functions for methods. Use named functions with the keyword `function`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider avoiding using arrow function to assign a function to an identifier. In particular, don't use arrow functions for methods. Use function declarations with the keyword `function`:
```

We could also mention concise bodies as exceptions? If we can write `const x = () => ({ foo })` I'd rather not turn it into a method or declaration.

```js example-good
function x() {
  // …
}
```

Don't do:

```js example-bad
const x = () => {
  // …
};
```

When using arrow functions, use [implicit return](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions#function_body) (also known as _concise body_) when possible:

```js example-good
arr.map((e) => e.id);
```

And not:

```js example-bad
arr.map((e) => { 

>   return e.id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  return e.id;
```

});
```

## Asynchronous methods

Writing asynchronous code improves performance and should be used when possible. In particular, you can use:

> - [Promises](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), including the `finally()` method

Reviewer: The `finally()` seems a bit out of place here. It's not even that controversial or hard to understand, and we rarely use it anyway.

Author: Fixed

}
```

### Methods

To define methods, use the method definition syntax:

```js example-good
const obj = {
  foo() {
    // ...
  },
  bar() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

Instead of:

```js example-bad
const obj = {
  foo: function () {
    // ...
  },
  bar: function () {
    // ...
  }
}
```

### Object properties

> The `Object.hasOwnProperties()` method has been deprecated in favor of `Object.hasOwn()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty()` method has been deprecated in favor of `Object.hasOwn()`.
```

## Functions

### Function names

For function names, use camelCase, starting with a lowercase character. Use concise, human-readable, and semantic names where appropriate.

The following is a correct example of a function name:

```js example-good
function sayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};
```

Don't use function names like these:

```js example-bad
function SayHello() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};

function doIt() {
  console.log('Hello!');
};
```

### Function declarations

> Where possible, use the `function` declaration to define functions over function expressions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where possible, use the `function` declaration to define functions over function expressions.
```

Here is the recommended way to declare a function:

```js example-good
function sum(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

This is not a good way to define a function:

```js example-bad
let sum = function(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

When using anonymous functions inside as a callback (a function passed to another method invocation) and you do not need to access `this`, use an arrow function to make the code shorter and cleaner.

Here is the recommended way:

```js example-good
const array1 = [1, 2, 3, 4];
let sum = array1.reduce((a, b) => a + b);
```

Instead of this:

```js example-bad
const array1 = [1, 2, 3, 4];
let sum = array1.reduce(function (a, b) {
  return a + b;
});
```

Consider avoiding using arrow function to assign a function to an identifier. In particular, don't use arrow functions for methods. Use named functions with the keyword `function`:

```js example-good
function x() {
  // …
}
```

Don't do:

```js example-bad

> const x = () => {
>    // …
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const x = () => {
  // …
};
```

```

When using arrow functions, use [implicit return](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions#function_body) (also known as _concise body_) when possible:

```js example-good
arr.map((e) => e.id);
```

And not:

```js example-bad
arr.map((e) => { 
  return e.id
});
```

## Asynchronous methods

Writing asynchronous code improves performance and should be used when possible. In particular, you can use:

- [Promises](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), including the `finally()` method
- [`async`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function)/[`await`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/await)

When both techniques are possible, we don't have any preference.

## Web APIs to avoid

> In addition to these JavaScript language features, we reccomend a few guidelines related to Web APIs to keep in mind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to these JavaScript language features, we recommend a few guidelines related to Web APIs to keep in mind.
```

> When both techniques are possible, we prefer using the simpler `async`/`await` syntax. Unfortunately, it isn't possible everywhere. Especially, you can't use `await` at the top-level JavaScript, though you can do it in ECMAScript modules, and CommonJS modules used by Node.js and Express. If your example is intended to be used everywhere, avoid top-level `await`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When both techniques are possible, we prefer using the simpler `async`/`await` syntax. Unfortunately, you can't use `await` at the top level unless you are in an ECMAScript module. CommonJS modules used by Node.js are not ES modules. If your example is intended to be used everywhere, avoid top-level `await`.
```

### Avoid deprecated APIs

When a method, a property, or a whole interface is deprecated, do not use it (outside its documentation). Instead, use the modern API.

Here is a non-exhaustive list of Web APIs to avoid and what to replace them with:

- Use `fetch()` instead of XHR (`XMLHttpRequest`).
- Use `AudioWorklet` instead of `ScriptProcessorNode`, in the Web Audio API.

### Use safe and reliable APIs

- Do not use {{DOMxRef("Element.innerHTML")}} to insert purely textual content into an element; use {{DOMxRef("Node.textContent")}} instead. The property `innerHTML` leads to security problems if a developer doesn't control the parameter. The more we as writers avoid using it, the fewer security flaws are created when a developer copies and pastes our code.

  The example below demonstrates the use of `textContent`.

  ```js example-good
  let text = 'Hello to all you good people';
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.textContent = text;
  ```

  Don't use `innerHTML` to insert _pure text_ into DOM nodes.

  ```js example-bad
  let text = 'Hello to all you good people';
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.innerHTML = text;
  ```

> - The `alert()` function is unreliable. It doesn't work in live example on MDN that are inside an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}. Moreover, it is modal to the whole window, which is annoying. In static code examples, , use `console.log()` or `console.error()`. In [live examples](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Live_samples), avoid `console.log()` and `console.error()` as they are not displayed, use a dedicated UI element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `alert()` function is unreliable. It doesn't work in live examples on MDN that are inside an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}. Moreover, it is modal to the whole window, which is annoying. In static code examples, , use `console.log()` or `console.error()`. In [live examples](/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Live_samples), avoid `console.log()` and `console.error()` as they are not displayed. Use a dedicated UI element.
```

}
```

### Checking object properties

> The `Object.hasOwnProperties()` is problematic and has been deprecated in favor of `Object.hasOwn()`. Use the latter.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `Object.hasOwnProperties()` method has been deprecated in favor of `Object.hasOwn()`.
```

```

The same rule applies to CSS prefixes.

### Avoid deprecated APIs

When a method, a property, or a whole interface is deprecated, do not use it (outside its documentation). Instead, use the modern API.

Here is a non-exhaustive list of Web APIs to avoid and what to replace them with:

- Use `fetch()` instead of XHR (`XMLHttpRequest`).
- Use `AudioWorklet` instead of `ScriptProcessorNode`, in the Web Audio API.

### Use safe and reliable APIs

- Do not use {{DOMxRef("Element.innerHTML")}} to insert purely textual content into an element, use {{DOMxRef("Node.textContent")}} instead. The property `innerHTML` leads to security problems if the developer doesn't control the parameter. The more we avoid it, the fewer security flaws are created by copying & pasting our code.

  The example below demonstrates the use of `textContent`.

  ```js example-good
  let text = 'Hello to all you good people';
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.textContent = text;
  ```

  Don't use `innerHTML` to insert _pure text_ into DOM nodes.

  ```js example-bad
  let text = 'Hello to all you good people';
  const para = document.createElement('p');
  para.innerHTML = text;
  ```

> - The `alert()` function is unreliable. It doesn't work in live example on MDN that are inside an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}. More, it is modal to the whole window, which is annoying. Do not use it. Use a simple `console.log()` or `console.error()`, a dedicated UI element in your example, or the {{HTMLElement("dialog")}} element.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The `alert()` function is unreliable. It doesn't work in live example on MDN that are inside an {{HTMLElement("iframe")}}. Moreover, it is a modal to the whole window, which is annoying. Instead, use `console.log()` or `console.error()`, the {{HTMLElement("dialog")}} element, or a dedicated UI element in your example.
```
